## An Analysis of the Characteristics of Self-Directed Learners and Strategies to Enhance Self-Directed Learning in Education Systems: Transcending Boundaries

Nathaniel Edwards, Yamaguchi National University, Japan

The Asian Conference on Education 2015 Official Conference Proceedings

## Abstract

Education  can  allow  individuals  to  transcend  boundaries  of  space,  identity,  and culture  by  empowering  learners  with  the  ability  to  pursue  self-directed,  lifelong learning. Valuable new meanings and understandings can be created by the interaction between  self-motivated,  self-directed  learners,  communities,  and  a  wide  range  of organizations (Rogers, 2004). A shift away from traditional, teacher-centered power relations towards learner-centered approaches can significantly enhance learning and create  the  intrinsic motivation  necessary  to  enable  effective,  dynamic,  lifelong learning  processes.  Intrinsic  motivation  is  an  essential  element  of  self-directed learning  (Cross,  1992).  Self-directed  learners  are  skilled  at  teaching  others  and  at overcoming  barriers  to  communication  and  mutual  understanding.  Self-motivated learners  understand  the  viewpoints  of  other  learners  and  are  skillful  at  sharing experiences and knowledge (Kalantzis, 2003). Mentors play a useful role as guides and advisors in self-directed learning. One of the most important, fundamental goals of  education may be to create the conditions that lead to intrinsic motivation and a lifetime  of  self-directed  learning  (Lewis,  1995).  Self-directed  learning  is  becoming increasingly  important  in  the  global  economy  and  international  society  and  is associated with adult learners that exhibit common characteristics. Self-reflection is a key  aspect  of  lifelong  learning  and  leads  to  a  better  understanding  of  one's  own strengths  and  weaknesses.  Self-directed  learners  are  engaged  emotionally  in  the learning process and are able to monitor and adjust their own learning. Learner-centered  learning  strategies  can  be  employed  to  enhance  and  promote  the traits of self-directed learners and lifelong learning for the benefit of individuals and society.

Keywords: lifelong learning, adult learning, self-directed learning, intrinsic motivation, empowerment iafor

The International Academic Forum www.iafor.org

## Introduction

A shift away from traditional, teacher-centered power relations towards learner-centered approaches can significantly enhance learning and create the intrinsic motivation  necessary  to  enable  effective,  dynamic,  lifelong  learning  processes. Intrinsic  motivation  is  an  essential  element  of  self-directed  learning  (Cross,  1992). Self-directed  learners  are  skilled  at  teaching  others  and  at  overcoming  barriers  to communication and mutual understanding. One of the most important, fundamental goals of education may be to create the conditions that lead to intrinsic motivation and a lifetime of self-directed learning (Lewis, 1995). Self-directed learning is becoming increasingly  important  in  the  global  economy  and  international  society  and  is associated with adult learners that exhibit common characteristics. Self-reflection is a key  aspect  of  lifelong  learning  and  leads  to  a  better  understanding  of  one's  own strengths  and  weaknesses.  Self-directed  learners  are  engaged  emotionally  in  the learning process and are able to monitor and adjust their own learning. Learner-centered  learning  strategies  can  be  employed  to  enhance  and  promote  the traits of self-directed learners and lifelong learning for the benefit of individuals and society.

Self-directed learning and lifelong learning are closely related concepts. Self-reflection  is  an  intrinsic  element  of  lifelong  learning  and  leads  to  a  better understanding  of  one's  own  strengths  and  weaknesses,  abilities  and  limits.  People learn  more  about  themselves  as  they  learn  more  about  the  world  and  other  people during  a  lifetime  of  formal  and  informal  study  and  daily  learning.  Self-directed learning is becoming increasingly important in the workplace and is associated with adult learners that exhibit common characteristics. Learner-centered learning strategies can be employed to enhance the traits of self-directed learners (Butcher &amp; Sumner,  2011).  The  educational  philosophies  of  humanism  and  connectivism  may serve  as  useful  theoretical  frameworks  for  examining  and  developing  self-directed learning. Numerous barriers as well as opportunities exist in lifelong learning.

## Learner Autonomy: Essential Characteristics of Self-Directed Learners

Self-directed learners exhibit many common and measurable characteristics. Intrinsic motivation, the ability to select personal goals, self-discipline, the ability to self-assess, and metacognitive skills are key characteristics of self-directed learners (King, 2011). Self-directed learners are engaged emotionally in the learning process, maintain high levels of self-generated motivation to pursue their self-determined goals and objectives, and are able to monitor and adjust their own learning. Independent learners possess high levels of determination, perseverance, and self-motivation (Cross, 1992). Motivation is a common characteristic of self-directed learners. Proactive, extroverted personality types may naturally tend to engage in independent, self-directed learning, and ambitious entrepreneurs and high-level managers and leaders of organizations are often highly self-motivated and self-directed in their personal learning objectives and goals  (Raemdonck,  Rien  van,  Valcke,  Segers,  &amp;  Thijssen,  2012).  Although  some learners may naturally tend enthusiastically towards self-directed learning as a result of  their  personality  type,  all  learners  may  be  guided  towards  effective  independent learning strategies.

Intrinsic motivation  is  the  force  which  allows  students  to  pursue  independent, self-directed  learning.  One  of  the  most  important,  fundamental  goals  of  education may  be  to  create  conditions  that  lead  to  intrinsic  motivation  and  a  life-time  of self-directed learning. Rogers (2004) believes that self-directed learners initiate their own  learning  by  finding  out  what  they  need  to  learn  and  how,  by  planning  and monitoring  their  learning  using  various  resources,  and  maintain  their  learning  by recording it and working with peers and mentors. Mentors may play an important role as  guides  and  advisors  in  self-directed  learning.  Effective  self-directed  learning requires some degree of expert guidance (Hatcher, 1997). Self-directed learning does not occur spontaneously in a vacuum. The surrounding environment, society, culture and educational institutions may serve to promote or inhibit the key characteristics of autonomous learning processes.

## Strategies to Promote and Enhance Self-Directed Learning

A wide range of practical  strategies  and  policies  may  be  employed  to  facilitate  the development of intrinsically  motivated,  self-directed  learning.  Self-directed  learners should be given opportunities to teach others, thereby reinforcing their own knowledge  and  understanding.  Group  work  assignments  provide  students  with opportunities  to  share  and  to  explain  what  they  have  learned  to  others,  thereby reinforcing  their  own  understanding  of  subject  matter  and  confidence  in  their  own abilities (Douglas &amp; Morris, 2014). Collaborative learning tasks enhance self-directed learning. Interactive online environments provide valuable opportunities for a variety of collaborative learning projects (Bryan, 2015). Collaboration with peers can foster self-directed learning and increase the intrinsic motivation to learn.

Blogs  are  one  form  of  effective,  interactive,  technology-based  communication  that can be used to create a collaborative community of learning and to promote highly reflective  learning  and  self-assessment  (Robertson,  2011).  The  sharing  of  personal experience provides numerous opportunities for self-reflection. Personalizing learning tasks  may  assist  learners  in  encoding  new  knowledge  within  existing  cognitive frameworks (Butcher &amp; Sumner, 2011). Social interaction can provide a catalyst for intrinsic motivation and deep, reflective learning. Self-directed research involving the use  of  social  media  can  promote  the  development  and  improvement  of  complex knowledge  management  skills  and  of  self-monitoring,  self-assessment,  and  goal selection  (Rampai,  2015).  Effective  self-directed  learning  requires  some  degree  of control  of  the  selection  of  learning  goals.  Flexible,  modular  software  programs  in foreign language study and other subjects allow individual learners to learn at their own pace and to transfer independent learning and knowledge management skills to other areas (Morrison, 2011). The manner in which students learn and the acquisition of  independent  study  skills  are  as  important  as  the  subject  matter  and  facts  being learned.

Self-directed  learners  are  competent  at  teaching  others  what  they  know  (Kalantzis, 2003).  Self-directed  learners  understand  the  viewpoints  of  other  learners  and  are skillful at sharing experience and knowledge. Curricula need to address a wide range of different learner backgrounds and life experiences. The life experiences of learners can be used as a useful and motivating learning resource in independent learning (La Porte, 2015). Online newsgroups provide an ideal platform for self-directed learners to share their experiences and knowledge with a large audience for the benefit of all participants.

Learner-centered  environments  require  respect  for  the  needs  of  learners.  Negative educational experiences may prevent the development of self-directed learning (Cross, 1992). Emotions play a significant role in successful independent learning. Learners have  an  emotional  and  psychological  need  to  study  in  a supportive learning environment (Gordon, 2004). A supportive learning community of peers and mentors, whether local or online, can help to facilitate self-directed learning. E-learning can be applied  to  meet  the  educational  and  life  needs  of  lifelong  learners  in  many  areas. Learner  portfolios  allow  students  to  reflect  deeply  on  the  learning  process  (King, 2011).  E-learning  can  be  used  to  provide  additional  resources  for  professional development in many fields and to assist employees in building a network of valuable contacts.  Strategies  to  enhance  self-directed  learning  should  be  learner-centered, community-based,  and  relevant  to  the  personal  and  professional  needs  of  lifelong learners.

## Humanism and Connectivism: Theoretical Insights into Self-Directed Learning Processes

Responsibility for learning outcomes should be given to self-directed learners (Cross, 1992). Just as learners are ultimately responsible for their own decisions in life, they must  also  learn  to  be  responsible  for  directing  and  adjusting  their  own  learning processes and goals. Learners need to approach self-directed learning in a professional, systematic  fashion  and  to  assume  responsibility  for  their  own  learning  outcomes (Hatcher, 1997). Educators should respect the uniqueness of each individual learner and  enhance  their  teaching  practices  with  theories  of  human  development  that promote the growth of individual learners. Self-directed learners require a high degree of  control  of  their  own  learning  and  selection  of  materials  and  assignments.  Adult learners have a unique and extensive life experience and tend to be focused on solving practical problems (Cross, 1992). Effective theories of self-directed learning focus on the needs and experiences of learners and the development of learner autonomy and problem-solving skills. Connectivism and humanism, which emphasize the importance of intrinsic motivation and self-actualization, are examples of educational philosophies  that  may  provide  a  useful  theoretical  framework  for  self-directed learning  (Conradie,  2014).  Technology  is  causing  learners  to  become  both  more independent and more interconnected with other learners in a wide range of online learning communities. Connectivism provides a theoretical framework for an understanding of the manner in which technology is transforming traditional modes of learning  and  creating  meaning  in  powerful  new  forms  of  interactive,  collaborative communication.

Theories of self-directed adult learning should also address the biological, social, and psychological  developmental  factors  of  adults.  Older  learners  can  integrate  new information  more  deeply  into  existing  knowledge  and  provide  more  accurate  and detailed  responses  than  younger  learners  (Cross,  1992).  The  wisdom  from  life experience can be incorporated into independent learning processes. Increased levels of  discipline,  persistence,  confidence,  and  motivation  to  continue  learning  and  to acquire  new  skills  may  result  from  successful  self-directed  learning (Davis,  2015). The promotion of self-directed learning in formal education is an essential component of  successful  lifelong  learning  programs.  Learning  may  be  more  effective  when learners possess some degree of autonomy and control over the selection, focus, and processing of information (Todd &amp; Douglas, 2012). Theories of self-directed learning should also include the central importance of the individual learner and of freedom of choice, self-expression, and creativity which drives innovation.

## Transcending Boundaries: Opportunities and Barriers to Self-Directed Lifelong Learning

The number of self-directed adult learners is increasing each year in many countries and some companies are paying part or all of the tuition expenses of flexible distance learning  programs.  Opportunities  for  self-directed,  lifelong  learning  are  steadily increasing  in  educational  institutions  and  in  online  learning  environments  (Davis, 2015).  Distance  learning  programs  and  online  courses  are  providing  more  learning opportunities for self-directed adult learners. People who cannot leave their home due to  health  problems  or  disabilities  are  able  to  stay  in  contact  with  a  large  online community of friends, peers, colleagues, and educational support services. Technology and free or relatively low-cost, collaborative online learning environments are revolutionizing traditional learning processes and creating unprecedented opportunities for access to higher education. Students who learn how to engage effectively in self-directed, lifelong learning are able to transcend multiple psychological, cultural, societal, educational, and professional barriers and to achieve numerous challenging goals.

Barriers to self-directed learning include factors such as different forms of discrimination, financial barriers, and time constraints due to work and family duties. The shift from teacher-centered to learner-centered modes of instruction and learning may  be  challenging  for  both  teachers  and  students  and  may  require  a  transitional phase (Hatcher, 1997). Some of the greatest barriers to continuous self-directed adult learning  may  be  psychological;  some  adults  may  lack  motivation,  self-esteem  or confidence  in  their  own  learning  abilities,  and  they  may  succumb  to  negative  peer pressure. Administrative barriers may exist in some learning environments. Self-assessment  and  course  assessment  processes  can  provide  valuable  feedback  to enhance self-directed learning environments and to remove administrative barriers to independent learning and creativity (Douglas &amp; Morris, 2014). Self-directed learners need to acquire critical thinking skills and a minimum level of computer and social media literacy. Lack of technical skills and lack of access to online collaboration tools may impede the development of optimal levels of self-directed learning (Bryan, 2015). High, sustained levels of motivation are important in the creation and maintenance of self-directed  learning  and  can  help  to  overcome  financial,  social,  cultural,  and psychological barriers. The intrinsic motivation to learn may become a self-generating force once students become skilled at self-directed learning.

## Conclusion

Self-directed learners exhibit many common characteristics including high levels of self-generated motivation, confidence, and a focus on goals. Learner-centered strategies and learning communities may promote and enhance the common traits of self-directed learners. Learning theories should address the specific social, psychological, and emotional needs of adult learners and the influence of technology on learning processes. Online learning is increasing opportunities and resources for self-directed learning, allowing learners to overcome many traditional barriers (Bryan, 2015). Intrinsic motivation can be a powerful force in overcoming the many barriers to self-directed, self-generated, autonomous  lifelong learning, and methods  to promote the intrinsic motivation to learn should be incorporated into formal education. Students who discover the joy of learning are able to make significant contributions to their  communities  and  to  the  body  of  human  knowledge  over  a  productive  and rewarding lifetime of research.

## References

Bryan, V. C. (2015). Self-directed learning and technology. The Education Digest, 80 (6), 42-44. Retrieved June 9, 2015 from ProQuest database.

Butcher, K. R., &amp; Sumner, T. (2011). Self-directed learning and the sensemaking paradox. Human-Computer Interaction , 26 (1), 123-159. Retrieved August 6, 2015 from EBSCOhost database.

Conradie, P. W. (2014). Supporting self-directed learning by connectivism and personal learning environments. International Journal of Information and Education Technology, 4 (3), 254-259. Retrieved July 12, 2015 from EBSCOhost database.

Cross, K. P. (1992). Adults as learners: Increasing participation and facilitating learning. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Davis, J. (2015). Education through self-directed learning. Australian Nursing and Midwifery Journal, 23 (1), 26-27. Retrieved August 2, 2015 from ProQuest database.

Douglas, C., &amp; Morris, S. (2014). Student perspectives on self-directed learning. Journal of the Scholarship of Teaching &amp; Learning , 14 (1), 13-25. Retrieved August 12, 2015 from EBSCOhost database.

Gordon, S. P. (2004). Professional development for school improvement: Empowering learning communities. Boston: Allyn and Bacon.

Hatcher, T. G. (1997). The ins and outs of self-directed learning. Training &amp; Development, 51 (2), 34-36. Retrieved June 3, 2015 from ProQuest database.

Kalantzis, M. (2003). Assessing multiliteracies and the new basics. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy, and Practice, 10 (1), 15. Retrieved July 25, 2015 from EBSCOHost database.

King, C. (2011). Fostering self-directed learning through guided tasks and learner reflection. Studies in Self-Access Learning Journal , 2 (4), 257-267. Retrieved May 9, 2015 from EBSCOhost database.

La Porte, A. M. (2015). Older adult responses to art curriculum and self-directed learning. International Journal of Education through Art , 11 (1), 59-74. Retrieved August 5, 2015 from EBSCOhost database.

Lewis, C. (1995). Educating hearts and minds: Rethinking the roots of Japanese educational achievement. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Morrison, B. R. (2011). Self-directed learning modules for independent learning: IELTS exam preparation. Studies in Self-Access Learning Journal , 2 (2), 51-67. Retrieved May 3, 2015 from EBSCOhost database.

Raemdonck, I., Rien van, d. L., Valcke, M., Segers, M., &amp; Thijssen, J. (2012). Predictors of self-directed learning for low-qualified employees: A multi-level analysis. European Journal of Training and Development, 36 (6), 572-591. Retrieved August 14, 2015 from ProQuest database.

Rampai, N. (2015). Model of knowledge management via social media to enhance graduated student's self-directed learning skill. International Journal of Information and Education Technology, 5 (10), 799-802. Retrieved May 15, 2015 from ProQuest database.

Robertson, J. (2011). The educational affordances of blogs for self-directed learning. Computers &amp; Education , 57 (2), 1628Ð1644. Retrieved June 23, 2015 from Elsevier ScienceDirect database.

Rogers, T. (2004). Towards conscious self-directed learning. Human Resources Magazine, 9( 5), 22-23. Retrieved July 21, 2015 from EBSCOHost database.

Todd M. G., &amp; Douglas B. M. (2012). Self-directed learning: A cognitive and computational perspective. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 9 (7) , 464-481 . Retrieved June 3, 2015 from SAGE Journals database.