## Abstracts of Current Literature

Hewitt-Taylor J. Self-directed learning: views of teachers and students. J Adv Nurs. 2001;36:496-504.

In the late 1980s, nurse education in the United Kingdom (UK) underwent major changes in curriculum through incorporation of principles of adult education that focused on self-directed learning (SDL). However, more recent studies have questioned the validity of this narrow approach, suggesting that traditional didactic methods of instruction have a place beside SDL strategies, as adult learning is multifaceted. Authors report that students enjoy the autonomy of SDL, but in reality prefer teacher-led modules, while teachers have favored studentcentered learning but may have problems relinquishing control of the learning environment. Reflection, learning contracts, and problem-based learning are a few of the many suggested means with which to achieve SDL, that have some critics of SDL arguing that the management of SDL is being emphasized to the detriment of facilitation of the overall learning process. With another radical change in nurse education underway, clarification of SDL terminology and effectiveness is imperative. The purpose of this study was to investigate teachers' and students' understanding of SDL and their perceptions of its use and value in pediatric nurse education in the UK.

Twenty-two teachers and 32 students engaged in advanced qualification education in pediatric nursing in the UK participated in this two-phase qualitative, interview-based study. All students were registered nurses (RNs). Phase I involved a single case study of four students and 14 faculty at a single university enrolled in a course that prepared nurses for the pediatric intensive care setting. Data collection occurred through observation of lessons and course process, analysis of a  course  journal,  and  a  series  of  semi-structured  interviews  over  the  6-month duration of the course. The interviews were staggered to include the start, midpoint, and conclusion of the course. All students received a fourth interview 6 months post course completion.

Phase  II  expanded  the  interviewing  process  to  an  additional  seven  sites, involving  eight  teachers  and  28  students.  However,  interviews  were  conducted only  once  and  students  were  interviewed  in  focus  groups  of  2-10  individuals. Interviews for both phases were taped and transcribed and inductive analysis was used to interpret the experience of the participants.

Results  indicated  a  significant  lack  of  consensus  on  SDL  terminology  and purpose with a focus on observed behavior rather than the learning process itself. Most students did not see SDL as a component of adult learning and associated it with  learning  without  teacher  support.  The  majority  of  teachers  felt  that  SDL needed facilitation to assist with skill development and student responsibility of the  learning  process.  Such  discrepancies  undoubtedly  explain  the  variance  in value placed on SDL that is found in the literature. Limitations of the study included a relatively small number of subjects in a highly selected area of nurse education in the UK.

The author concluded that attempts to define SDL remain elusive and suggested that attention to the process rather than to the observed behaviors and for- mats would derive more benefit to participants along with clarification of expectations and roles.

Alice Dorworth Holder, PT University of Indianapolis Indianapolis, IN

O'Shea E. Self-directed learning in nurse education: a review of the literature. J Adv Nurs. 2003;43:62-70.

One of the primary goals of nurse education today is to equip nurses with the skills to adapt to a rapidly changing and often unpredictable health care environment. In recent years, there has been a paradigm shift from teacherdirected learning toward a student-directed approach, embracing the principles of adult education, such as self-directed learning (SDL), in a continuing endeavor to enable students to meet the challenges they will face throughout their professional careers. Successful incorporation of SDL in the curriculum requires an understanding of its concept, forms, and benefits. Nursing research in this area has focused, since the 1980s, on how SDL was developed and utilized. The purpose of this article was to review the current literature to gain an understanding of the meaning of SDL and to investigate its use in the nursing curriculum.

The literature suggests that a lack of consensus exists on the exact definition of SDL, causing anxiety to both students and teachers across professional curricula. What is agreed is that it relates to the degree of control that the learner has over the development and management of what is learned. Most of the literature supports the concept of an adult learning continuum moving from teacher-directed toward self-directed learning. Along the continuum, learning styles, preferences for learning, readiness to learn, age, experience, situation, and an understanding of how people learn all have an impact on the acceptance and effectiveness of SDL as a useful educational tool. The movement along the continuum is an individual process with the need for a curriculum to offer a variety of learning experiences, and to keep in mind that SDL is only one of many methods of teaching.

The need for staff development is crucial to assist the move from teacher to facilitator and from generalist to specialist if SDL is to be effective. It is recommended that educators establish a definition of SDL within their respective curricula  and  define  its  parameters  to  aid  both  student  and  teacher  proficiency. Continual self-assessment by all participants in the learning module is also important for the successful transition to self-directed and lifelong learning.

The author concluded that, although SDL is based upon principles of adult education, it has no well-defined concept. This void has been filled with inconsistency in its understanding and use in nurse education. The variation found in learning styles, preferences, and readiness among students and teachers suggest a need for early identification of these differences in order to take advantage of the reported benefits of SDL: increased freedom of choice, enhanced autonomy

and responsibility for learning, increased motivation, and the acquisition of lifelong learning behaviors and skills.

Alice Dorworth Holder, PT University of Indianapolis Indianapolis, IN

Ciardulli LM, Goode JVR. Using health observances to promote wellness in community pharmacies. J Am Pharm Assoc. 2003;43(1):61-68.

Health professionals have the responsibility to educate and promote health to the public in order to attain the goals outlined in the federal program, Healthy People 2010. Pharmacists are in a unique position to provide health education and health promotion to the public because of their accessibility in the community. The article provides a guide that pharmacists can use to prepare, plan, and implement health promotion activities based on health observances published by the  Office  of  Disease  Prevention  and  Health  Promotion  (ODPHP)  each  year. Potential obstacles in implementing these activities and ways to overcome these obstacles were also discussed.

Health advocacy, facilitation of public health services, and provision of wellness activities such as education and screenings, are three levels of participation in health promotion activities in which pharmacists can engage. Preparation of a wellness activity involves two steps: conducting a needs assessment to determine the health observances appropriate for the community, and determining the level of participation based on the pharmacist's training, time available, and management support. Health advocacy, the first level of health promotion, involves disseminating health-related information using brochures, pamphlets, and posters. Facilitation  of  public  health  services  often  requires  collaboration  with  other health care professionals such as nurses, therapists, and nutritionists, who can provide services based on the health observance. Provision of wellness activities such as education and screenings involve the two levels of participation  mentioned above, being cognizant of the state regulations in providing services, and the logistics of implementing these services. Documentation procedures need to be implemented for liability purposes, patient outcomes, and for compensation for services. Advertising is critical in both facilitation of health promotion activities and provision of services.

Potential obstacles and possible solutions in implementing health promotion activities are: lack of reimbursements (services may be paid for out of pocket or may be reimbursed by self-insured employers); constraints in the physical design of the pharmacy (wellness services may be done outside the pharmacy department  or  building;  a  semi-private  room  for  screenings  may  be  considered  in remodeling  plans);  constraints  while  working  (providing  pharmacists  time  to provide health promotion services during certain times of the year and modifying workflow); lack of training (pharmacists can participate in professional development activities to hone their skills and increase knowledge); and lack of management support (pharmacists can at first be advocates providing health information to patients, and as their level of comfort and support increases, they can participate in other levels of health promotion activities).

Maria Alexa Crosby, PT University of Indianapolis Indianapolis, IN

Mu  K,  Chao  CC,  Jensen  GM,  Royeen  CB.  Effects  of  interprofessional  rural training on students' perceptions of interprofessional health care services. J Allied Health . 2004;33:125-131.

The interprofessional approach to health care delivery encourages collaboration among professionals over a variety of disciplines, with the goal of improved quality of care and patient outcomes. However, implementation of an interpro- fessional model with practicing professionals can often be difficult due to a lack of knowledge of other professions, a lack of interprofessional skill, and territoriality concerns. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect that exposure to an interprofessional training model that included both course work and clinical experience would have on the perceptions of students toward an interprofessional approach to health care.

Students from three disciplines, occupational therapy, physical therapy, and pharmacy, were provided with varied levels of exposure to members of the community, patients, and health care providers serving two Native American reservations in underserved, rural areas. Clinical experiences ranged from observation to  'hands-on'  and  from  hours  to  months,  while  interacting  and  collaborating with health care professionals from their own as well as other disciplines.

Pre and posttest evaluations (Interprofessional Education Perception Scale) assessed students' perceptions of their own, as well as other, allied health professionals. Qualitative data was also obtained via both pre and posttest observational studies, an on-site summary, a reflective journal, and a weekly inquiry and experience debriefing. Quantitative results revealed a significant increase in students' positive perceptions regarding interprofessional practice, noting a larger pre-post test difference in students with a longer clinical experience. Common themes emergent from the qualitative data included: value of interprofessional work, awareness and respect for community, and awareness of collaboration as a necessary ingredient in rural practice.

Students involved with interprofessional rural training reported an improved perception of other health care providers as well as an overall positive experience working in the community as part of a health care team. Thus, through the development of interprofessionally modeled learning experiences, students created a foundation for becoming more effective health care providers and for better serving the members of their community. The impact on recruitment and retention of providers in rural and underserved areas is also discussed.

Lauren Sher, SPT Stony Brook University Stony Brook, NY

Wrightson PA, Cross VE. Integrating research into the culture of allied health professions. J Allied Health. 2004;33:132-138.

The  evolution  of  physical  therapy  to  a  doctoring  profession,  by  whom autonomous and evidence-based health care service is provided, has required significant changes in both the clinical and academic environments. The professional  education  transition  to  a  postbaccalaureate  level  imposes  necessary changes to both individual faculty and institutions. Paramount among these is the development of a research culture. The purpose of this article was to review the challenges and barriers to change associated with the development of a research culture in allied health professions. Although the article focuses on this process within  physiotherapy  in  the  United  Kingdom,  the  issues  are  germane  to  health professions in general.

Institutional barriers were identified including a shortage of research experts and a lack of sufficient funding. A database of researchers in physiotherapy, occupational therapy, and speech and language therapy revealed small numbers of therapists  participating  in  research.  Furthermore,  doctorally  prepared  physiotherapists, who are few in number, are immediately viewed as experts without the benefit of mentored research activity in postdoctoral positions. Additionally, faculty who had functioned in a vocational environment were compelled to complete higher degrees to gain acceptance in academic communities of higher education, yet this attainment  did  not  necessarily  promote  individual  involvement  in research. Research funding, or lack thereof, is presented as another obstacle, as the major source of public funding in the UK is dependent upon retrospective