## Self-Directed Learning: A Cognitive and Computational Perspective

## Todd M. Gureckis and Douglas B. Markant

New York University

## Abstract

A widely advocated idea in education is that people learn better when the flow of experience is under their control (i.e., learning is self-directed). However, the reasons why volitional control might result in superior acquisition and the limits to such advantages remain poorly understood. In this article, we review the issue from both a cognitive and computational perspective. On the cognitive side, self-directed learning allows individuals to focus effort on useful information they do not yet possess, can expose information that is inaccessible via passive observation, and may enhance the encoding and retention of materials. On the computational side, the development of efficient 'active learning' algorithms that can select their own training data is an emerging research topic in machine learning. This review argues that recent advances in these related fields may offer a fresh theoretical perspective on how people gather information to support their own learning.

## Keywords

self-directed learning, active learning, machine learning, self-regulated study, intervention-based causal learning

Some information is provided to us by the environment, and the  timing  and  sequence  of  presentation  is  not  under  our immediate control (e.g., watching TV without a remote control or attending a lecture). Other information becomes accessible as a direct result of our own actions and choices, such as when we search for information online, interact with an unfamiliar device or mechanism, or ask questions of those around us. The goal of the present article is to consider the implications of these two modes of learning from both a cognitive and computational perspective.

The distinction between 'active' and 'passive' information acquisition  is  a  perennial  and  hugely  influential  topic  in  the learning  sciences  (Bruner,  Jolly,  &amp;  Sylva,  1976;  Montessori, 1912/1964;  National  Research  Council,  1999;  Piaget,  1930). For  example,  instruction  methods  such  as  discovery  learning (Bruner, 1961), experiential learning (Kolb, 1984), and inquiry learning (Papert, 1980) all advocate situations in which learners engage  in  active  hypothesis  testing,  interaction  with  learning materials,  and  self-directed  exploration.  In  many  of  these accounts,  self-directed  acquisition  of  information  is  seen  not only as a pedagogical tool but also as a 'motivating force' on the desire to learn (Berlyne, 1960; Hebb, 1955). Similar ideas are prominent in theories of cognitive development (Adolph &amp; Eppler, 1998; Gibson, 1988; Kuhn, Black, Keselman, &amp; Kaplan, 2000; Montessori, 1912/1964; Piaget, 1930; Schulz &amp; Bonawitz, 2007).

However,  relative  to  the  widespread  enthusiasm  for  an 'active'  view  of  human  learning,  there  has  often  been  less attention given to self-directed information acquisition in cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience. In fact, empirical studies of human learning and memory are most typically passive in that the experimenter tightly controls (and manipulates)  what  information  is  presented  to  the  learner  on  every trial. As a result, basic research in learning and memory has sometimes failed to make contact with core issues in educational research. Meanwhile, the many uses of the term 'active learning' or 'discovery learning' throughout the learning sciences  have  led  to  increasingly  divergent  conceptions  of  the basic issues (Chi, 2009).

In this article, we provide a synthesis of research in cognitive science and machine learning considering the interplay of learning, decision making, and information gathering. In particular, we focus on situations in which learners are in control of the information they experience by way of their ongoing decisions (i.e., learning is self-directed). Our review demonstrates why self-directed learning is not simply a special case of passive learning but has important and varied implications for both what is learned from any experience and for what is learnable. In addition, we explore how self-directed learning in humans can be understood in terms of key computational principles  borrowed  from  'active  learning'  research  in  the

Todd Gureckis, New  York University, 6 Washington Place, Room 280, New York, NY 10012

E-mail: todd.gureckis@nyu.edu

<!-- image -->

Perspectives on Psychological Science

7(5) 464  -481 © The Author(s) 2012 Reprints and permission: sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav DOI: 10.1177/1745691612454304

http://pps.sagepub.com

<!-- image -->

machine learning literature. This subfield of computer science seeks optimized learning algorithms that can construct or control their own training experience. Finally, we address the fundamental dilemma regarding self-directed learning that lies at the heart of recent debates in the educational literature (e.g., Klahr &amp; Nigam, 2004; Mayer, 2004): When does self-directed learning improve learning, retention, or transfer, and when do learners fall prey to biases that limit their ability to effectively gather information? Although much of the research surveyed in this review focuses on basic cognitive processes involved in learning and memory, we highlight how this emerging cluster of  ideas  may  apply  to  educationally  relevant  scenarios.  We conclude that self-directed learning remains a relatively understudied issue in cognitive science (at least in comparison to the education literature) but one that holds fundamental implications for theories of learning and memory.

## What Is Meant by 'Self-Directed' Learning?

Although the idea that learning should be 'active' or 'selfdirected' is a long-standing and influential idea, there is often a lack of agreement about exactly what this means (Chi, 2009). For  example,  self-directed  learning  is  alternately  associated with physical activity during a task (e.g., Harman, Humphrey, &amp; Goodale, 1999), the generation effect (i.e., enhanced longterm memory for material that is actively retrieved; Crutcher &amp; Healy, 1989; Jacoby, 1978), or with elaborative cognitive processes such as providing self-generated explanations (Lombrozo, 2006; Roscoe &amp; Chi, 2007, 2008). The present article focuses on a single dimension of self-directed learning, namely, the consequence of allowing learners to make decisions  about  the  information  they  want  to  experience  (see Fig. 1). Our assertion is that interactions between information sampling behavior (i.e., the decision to access or gather some piece  of  information)  and  learning  is  one  domain  in  which education,  cognitive  science,  cognitive  neuroscience,  and machine learning research have the greatest immediate potential for cross-fertilization.

However, distinguishing between these various senses of self-directed learning is difficult in most realistic learning situations. For example, in a passive learning environment wherein choices about information selection are limited, learners can still choose to selectively attend to different cues or features of the presented stimulus (e.g., Rehder &amp; Hoffman, 2005). Even a teacher-led, 'passive' student might be cognitively active in the sense of mentally evaluating hypotheses or explanations, just as a self-directed learner may engage in self-explanation in order to decide what information to access. Likewise, the degree  of  engagement  of  individual  learners  in  a  task  (i.e., their  level  of  'cognitive  activity')  may  be  influenced  by whether they are physically active during learning. Nevertheless, as our review will summarize, there are important psychological implications simply from allowing learners to make decisions about what information they want to access.

## Experimental Approaches to Self-Directed Learning

As defined above, self-directed learning situations are relevant to a broad range of cognitive tasks. To highlight the basic distinction, the following section provides examples of popular learning tasks from cognitive psychology and compares them with nearly identical 'self-directed' alternatives (see Table 1 for a summary). As we highlight later in the review, even relatively small changes to a learning task can have dramatic consequences for what is learned and retained.

## Memory encoding

One key element of classroom learning is  memorizing  new facts.  In  many  contemporary  laboratory  tasks  used  to  study memory, the experimenter determines the sequence and timing

Fig. 1. An example of self-directed learning in everyday life. In the scene, a young child is flipping through the pages of a storybook. At some point, the child comes to a picture she finds interesting and requests the name of the object from the caregiver. A key feature of this example is that the learner herself, as opposed to the parent or teacher, controls the learning sequence through her choices and actions.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Table 1. Comparisons Between Traditional Experimental Tasks Used in Cognitive Psychology and Analogous Self-Directed Alternatives

| Traditional cognitive task                                                                                                                                   | Self-directed alternative                                                                                                                                                          | Additional measurements                                                                                   | Example papers                                                                                                                |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Memory encoding: Individual  list items are presented   one at a time by the   experimenter.                                                                 | 'Flash card' study: The par- ticipant chooses the timing  and ordering of each studied  item.                                                                                      | Order, timing, and spacing of  study decisions                                                            | Kornell and Metcalfe (2006);  Metcalfe (2002);  Voss,  Gonsalves, Federmeier,  Tranel, and Cohen (2011)                       |
| Category learning: Category  exemplars are sampled ran- domly from an experimenter- defined distribution and  presented one at a time.                       | Active category learning:  The learner can point to  particular items to query  the category label or can  'design' items to test.                                                 | Identity of queried exam- ples, sequence of queries                                                       | Huttenlocher (1962);  Markant and Gureckis  (2010, 2012b)                                                                     |
| Causal learning: Learners  observe pairings between  causal events and their  consequences and use the  observed contingencies to  estimate causal strength. | Intervention-based causal  learning: Learners actively  design 'experiments' or  intervene on variables in a  causal system then observe  the consequences.                        | Pattern or sequence of  interventions                                                                     | Lagnado and Sloman (2004);  Sobel and Kushnir (2006);  Steyvers,  T enenbaum,  Wagenmakers, and Blum  (2003)                  |
| Decision making: Participant  decides between a set of  prospects that have been de- scribed by the experimenter.                                            | Active gathering of information:  Incomplete information is  given about each prospect  and the decision maker must  gather additional information  via active information search. | Sequence of information  search decisions, how  much information is  gathered prior to making  a decision | Edwards (1965); Tversky  and Edwards (1966);  Hau, Pleskac, Kiefer, and  Hertwig (2008); Juni,  Gureckis, and Maloney  (2011) |

of study items. In contrast, in a self-directed memory task, participants make decisions about how to study a set of items in preparation for a future test. For example, learners might control a 'window' that reveals individual items hidden within an array so that they can devote varying amounts of study time to different items (Voss, Gonsalves,  Federmeier,  Tranel,  &amp; Cohen,  2011).  Similarly,  researchers  have  examined  selfdirected study time allocation in common educational scenarios such as studying with flashcards (Kornell &amp; Bjork, 2007; Kornell &amp; Metcalfe, 2006; Metcalfe, 2002, 2009; Metcalfe &amp; Kornell, 2003; T. O. Nelson &amp; Narens, 1994). In both of these situations, the learner's choices (rather than the experimenter's) determine what is learned, how much time is spent per item, and the sequence of information presented. Note that in comparison  to  more  recent  approaches,  early  research  on memory actually gave participants more control (e.g., when memorizing a list of words printed on paper, participants could decide  how to  allocate  effort  or  study  time  to  different  elements). However, on the whole, study strategies or exploration behaviors are less frequently a focus of investigation in memory research.

## Category learning

Category  learning  research  aims  to  understand  how  people discover  the  natural  grouping  of  objects  into  classes  (e.g., learning  that  a  particular  group  of  four-legged  animals  are 'dogs'). Category learning differs from memory tasks in that it examines  not  just  the  acquisition  of  new  facts  but  the generalization of learned information to new  situations (e.g.,  correctly  classifying  a  completely  novel  dog).  In  the traditional 'passive' version of a category learning task used in  the  laboratory,  category  members  are  sampled  pseudorandomly from an experimenter-defined statistical distribution and presented one at a time (Ashby &amp; Gott, 1988; Shepard, Hovland, &amp; Jenkins, 1961). Of particular interest here is the fact that the learner has no control over the order or nature of the stimuli. In a self-directed learning task, subjects might be able  to  design  category  members  they  would  like  to  learn about (Markant &amp; Gureckis, 2010, 2012b) or query individual category  members  by  pointing  at  them  in  an  array.  Such procedures are analogous to a child asking a parent whether an unfamiliar object is a 'dog' rather than waiting for the parent to name it (see a related literature on question-asking behavior: Berlyne &amp; Frommer, 1966; Chouinard, 2007; Kemler Nelson, Egan, &amp; Holt, 2004; Mills, Legare, Bills,  &amp;  Mejias,  2010). Self-directed learning procedures were common in early work on category acquisition (Bruner, Goodnow, &amp; Austin, 1956; Huttenlocher, 1962), but such paradigms have attracted less overall attention despite their relevance to classroom learning (see Kornell &amp; Bjork, 2007, for a review). A related approach is found  in  eye-tracking  studies  that  have  explored  how learners visually scan various stimulus properties during the course of learning (Blair, Watson, Calen Walshe, &amp; Maj, 2009; Rehder &amp; Hoffman, 2005), although eye movements include both voluntary and involuntary components.

## Causal learning

Real world learning is not just about acquiring new facts or memories  but  often  involves  understanding  the  causal  relations between events in the world. For example, a child might learn that medicine can get rid of a tummy ache, that heating up a liquid causes it to bubble, and that engaging in certain bad behaviors  can  cause  an  adult  to  get  angry.  In  each  of  these cases, some event in the world (taking medicine, applying heat to a liquid, or behaving badly) causes certain other events. Philosophers,  statisticians,  and  psychologists  often  distinguish between  correlation  and  causation  and  have  noted  that  it  is impossible  to  empirically  separate  these  ideas  without  the ability  to  actively  intervene  on  the  environment  (e.g.,  Mill, 1843/1950). For example, although a child could observe that a sibling's behavior is correlated with the mood of their parent, children can better establish which behaviors cause their parent to get angry by themselves behaving in different ways in different situations and observing the resulting effects on their parent's disposition. This type of learning is often referred to as  intervention-based  causal  learning  because  the  learner  is intervening  or  manipulating  a  variable  in  the  environment (their behavior) just as a scientist might manipulate an independent variable in the design of an experiment.

A number of recent  studies  have  explored  the  impact  of active, intervention-based learning on causal learning in children  and  adults  (Gopnik  et  al.,  2004;  Lagnado  &amp;  Sloman, 2004; Rottman &amp; Keil, 2012; Sobel &amp; Kushnir, 2006; Steyvers, Tenenbaum, Wagenmakers, &amp; Blum, 2003). In such tasks, participants learn by interacting with an ambiguous system, setting or manipulating variables and observing the effect these interventions have on other variables. For example, Sobel and Kushnir (2006) had adults interact with a virtual circuit board presented on a computer display. The circuit involved four differently colored lights that were linked in various ways such that  turning  on  one  light  caused  other  lights  to  turn  on  (the causal relationships were  probabilistic). Learners  experimented with the system by setting various lights to the 'on' or 'off' state and observing the effect on other lights in the system. Later, they were tested for their knowledge of the causal relationships between the lights. Effective learning in this task requires  the  learner  to  design  informative  interventions  or 'experiments' that provide information about the causal links. Similar tasks have a long history in the developmental literature (e.g., Kuhn &amp; Brannock, 1977; Kuhn &amp; Ho, 1980; Piaget, 1930). At a fundamental level, these types of learning environments emphasize self-directed information gathering because the learner is in charge of which interventions to perform at each point in time. There is growing evidence that interventions are planned specifically with the objective of acquiring useful  information  about  causal  structure  (e.g.,  Schulz  &amp; Bonawitz, 2007; Steyvers et al., 2003). For example, Schulz and  Bonawitz  (2007)  found  that  young  children  play  more with a toy after being shown confounded information about how it works, suggesting that one goal of exploratory play is to reduce uncertainty about causal structure.

## Gathering information for making decisions

A final domain that frequently involves a component of selfdirected information acquisition is decision making. In traditional decision-making tasks, individuals must choose between  pairs  of  options  that  are  described  by  the  experimenter  (e.g.,  'Would  you  prefer  $5  now  or  $10  in  two weeks?').  However,  in  order  to  make  effective  real-world decisions, people often have to first gather information about various options (e.g., Hertwig, Barron, Weber, &amp; Erev, 2004). For example, when purchasing a car, a buyer might consult various resources concerning the reliability and pricing of different vehicles. In these cases, decision making is preceded by a period of self-directed information sampling (Edwards, 1965;  Gureckis  &amp;  Markant,  2009,  Hau,  Pleskac,  Kiefer,  &amp; Hertwig,  2008;  Hills  &amp;  Hertwig,  2010;  Juni,  Gureckis, &amp;  Maloney,  2011;  Markant  &amp;  Gureckis,  2012a;  Todd  &amp; Dieckmann, 2005; Todd, Hills, &amp; Robbins, in press; Tversky &amp; Edwards, 1966).The key questions in this research are what information people sample prior to making a decision, how much information is needed before making a choice, and how information sampling influences later choices. Experimental techniques such as the Mouselab protocol (Payne, Bettman, &amp; Johnson, 1993; Payne, Braunstein, &amp; Carroll, 1978) or eye tracking  allow  detailed  measurement  of  self-directed  information sampling prior to choice.

## Isolating the Effects of Individual Choice and Control Through 'Yoked' Designs

The  previous  examples  clearly  highlight  how  self-directed information sampling can alter the course of learning, but how can we tell whether it actually conveys advantages for acquiring new knowledge? Isolating the contribution of individual choice to learning and memory requires establishing appropriate experimental controls. One popular method is the use of 'yoked' learning designs (see Huttenlocher, 1962, for an early example of this technique). In these experiments, one participant performs the task in a self-directed way, and the experimenter  records  the  information  that  the  learner  requests  or accesses. The same sequence of observations is then presented to  another  subject-the  yoked  control-who  receives  the same data passively (i.e., not under his or her control). Yoked learners experience a situation not unlike the main character in the movie Being John Malkovich , wherein they see the learning task through the 'eyes' of another individual. By ensuring that  there  are  no  differences  in  the  data  experienced,  differences in learning outcomes between these conditions help to highlight the effect of individual choice during learning (see Fig. 2).

However, a variety of factors suggest caution when interpreting yoked learning studies. First, it must be considered whether the yoking design systematically disadvantages yoked learners. For  example,  the  lack  of  control  that  yoked  participants  feel may be distracting and could interfere with learning independently  of  their  self-directed  partner's  behavior. Alternatively,

Fig.  2. A  simple  approach  to  yoked  studies  uses  two  computers  that  display  identical information.  As  the  self-directed  learner  interacts  with  the  task  on  the  host  computer,  a yoked participant seated in another room attempts to learn from the same display without the advantage of control.

<!-- image -->

whereas self-directed learners may be aware of the 'next step' in the learning sequence as soon as they make a decision, yoked learners may lag behind when directing attention to new stimuli and preparing to learn. In addition, self-directed learners may be more  engaged  in  a  task  relative  to  the  yoked  learner  either because  they  are  more  physically  active  or  because  they  are making more decisions. An important goal for yoked experiment designs is to control for engagement and attention in order to isolate the specific aspects of self-directed decision making that affect learning.

## Data-driven or informational explanations

A  more  interesting  factor  to  consider  is  whether,  despite equating the sequence of data, the usefulness of the information experienced is tied to the beliefs of the self-directed learner. In particular,  self-directed  learners  may  gather  data  that  specifically tests a hypothesis they have in mind, leading to a more individually informative training experience. Because different individuals bring different background knowledge to a task, this divergence could result in yoked learners gaining less from the same sequence of observations. As discussed below, a key challenge  for  yoked  experiment  designs  is  to  disentangle  'datadriven'  processes  from  'decision-driven'  processes  that  are involved in the act of gathering information.

## A Cognitive Perspective on the Advantages of Self-Directed Learning

One  reason cognitive scientists should be interested in self-directed  learning  is  the  fact  that  it  is  widely  thought  to improve learning, particularly in educational contexts. However, there is less understanding of why these benefits occur and considerable debate about the generality of such claims, particularly in the education literature (e.g., Klahr &amp; Nigam, 2004; Mayer, 2004). We will begin our review by laying out a number of contributing cognitive factors. Our synthesis draws from  a  broad  set  of  disparate  psychological  literatures  that have  explored  the  interactions  between  learning  and  choice behavior.

Rather than being limited by the flow of information from passive experience, self-directed learners are free to choose which information they want to learn. For example, by preferentially selecting  information  that  reduces  their  current  uncertainty, people may be able to optimize their experience (e.g., avoiding redundant data and focusing effort on parts of the environment that are not well understood). As a result, more can be learned  with  less  training,  because  each  experience  is  more useful  or  informative.  For  example,  Markant  and  Gureckis (2010) found that when learning novel perceptual categories, participants who were free to query individual exemplars in a self-directed way  outperformed  participants who  viewed examples  that  were  randomly  generated  from  a  distribution (the typical setup in this kind of task). Analysis of self-directed participants'  information  sampling  decisions  suggested  that these individuals learned more quickly by avoiding redundant exemplars they were already able to confidently classify. Similar patterns of uncertainty-driven information gathering have been  observed  in  the  exploratory  play  of  young  children (Schulz &amp; Bonawitz, 2007).

As noted above, some types of information are accessible only via interaction with the environment. For example, as in science, if two variables are correlated (e.g., lung cancer and smoking), actively manipulating one variable and observing the effect is necessary to establish the direction of causality, thus providing information that is inaccessible using observation alone (Mill, 1842/1950; Pearl, 2000). Consistent with this perspective,  a  number  of  recent  human  studies  have  found learning advantages for intervention-based learning in causal settings (Lagnado &amp; Sloman, 2004; Sobel &amp; Kushnir, 2006; Steyvers  et  al.,  2003).  In  these  cases,  self-direction  can  be viewed as providing not just 'better' data than passive learning but fundamentally distinct information that supports stronger inferences.

Self-directed information sampling can strongly shape our knowledge about the world. As a familiar example from social

psychology, if an individual interacts with others only following a positive social experience, this will result in more information  about  friends  and  biased  information  about  others (because  initial  negative  impressions  are  never  corrected; Denrell, 2005; Fazio, Eiser, &amp; Shook, 2004). Biased data gathering may underlie a variety of other cognitive biases, such as risk  aversion  (Denrell,  2007;  Hertwig  et  al.,  2004;  March, 1996),  overconfidence  (Juslin,  Winman,  &amp;  Hansson,  2007), and  illusory  correlation  perception  (Fiedler,  2000).  Indeed, psychologists are increasingly finding that interactions between choice behavior and learning have broad implications for  many  areas  of  knowledge  representation,  learning,  and decision making (Fiedler &amp; Juslin, 2006).

## Effort or encoding optimization

Similar  to  the  advantage  of  collecting  data  to  test  different hypotheses,  self-directed  learning  allows  people  to  decide how to study a set of material to maximize retention. Metcalfe and  colleagues  have  examined  how  people  allocate  study effort across materials of varying difficulty in preparation for future  memory  tests  (Metcalfe,  2002;  Metcalfe  &amp;  Kornell, 2003; Son &amp; Kornell, 2008; Son &amp; Metcalfe, 2000; see also Dunlosky &amp; Hertzog, 1998; T. O. Nelson &amp; Leonesio, 1988). One hypothesis is that materials or concepts just beyond the grasp of the learner are most amenable to learning (similar to Vygotsky's [1987] 'zone of proximal development'). Consistent with this view, study time allocation research has found that learners often allocate the most effort to easier items and progress to harder items only later in a study session, particularly  when given limited study time. For example, Metcalfe (2002) had people learn Spanish-English word pairs that were easy  (e.g.,  'fantastico'-'fantastic'),  medium,  or  hard  (e.g., 'chafarrinada'-'stain'). Rather than devote time to the most difficult  pairs,  participants  focused  on  items  of  easy  and medium difficulty that could be learned in the brief amount of study time available. Formal analyses suggest that such strategies are more effective for optimizing memory performance because starting with the most difficult items may mean fewer total items are successfully encoded (Atkinson, 1972a, 1972b; Son &amp; Sethi, 2010).

Even when the set of material to be learned does not vary dramatically in difficulty, making decisions about the timing, spacing, and order of information experienced may enhance encoding. In a spatial memory task in which the goal was to memorize grids of commonplace objects, Voss et al. (2011) reported that individuals who controlled the time spent studying each item and the order visited (using a joystick) had superior memory  at  test  compared  with  'yoked'  individuals who viewed a replay of another subject's active scan path. In this  study,  self-directed  encoding  was  also  associated  with increased coordination in cortico-hippocampal activity compared with the yoked control (assessed using fMRI), suggesting that self-directed study enhances neural processes related to successful encoding. Some of the observed benefits in this task  may  also  result  from  the  link  between  the  data  experienced by learners and their current knowledge state (Atkinson, 1972b; Kornell &amp; Metcalfe, 2006). For example, if a participant has prior experience with a particular object in the array, this may facilitate learning on the initial exposure and lead to avoiding  that  item  in  subsequent  study  opportunities.  The same object may be less familiar to a yoked participant and thus would benefit more from repeated study.

Although  these  studies  demonstrate  potential  benefits  of self-directed study, other work suggests that people often fail to account for properties of their own memory when selecting study strategies. For example, memory is typically better for items that are spaced (i.e., repeated study events are distributed  in  time)  rather  than  massed  (i.e.,  study  events  occur repeatedly  in  close  succession;  Dempster,  1989;  Glenberg, 1979).  However, people often fail  to  take  advantage  of  this effect  when  deciding  how  to  study.  For  example,  people believe that massed practice is a more effective learning mode (Kornell  &amp;  Bjork,  2008;  Simon  &amp;  Bjork,  2001)  and  when given the opportunity prefer to mass practice difficult items and space easy items (Son, 2004, although see Son &amp; Kornell, 2009, for a counterexample). Taken together, however, work in this area strongly suggests that even memory encoding-a mental  function  typically  viewed  as  passive  or  automaticmight be better understood as involving some component of active, strategic choice.

## Inductive inference and sampling assumptions

In  addition  to  modifying  the  flow  of  experience,  knowledge about the way information was gathered may influence learning  and  generalization.  For  example,  Xu  and  Tenenbaum (2007) explored how children generalize words to novel objects (see  also  Gweon,  Tenenbaum,  &amp;  Schultz,  2010;  Rhodes, Gelman, &amp; Brickman, 2010). In one condition, a set of four novel objects was verbally labeled by a knowledgeable teacher (i.e., the experimenter), whereas in the other condition the same four objects were labeled after the children themselves pointed to them and requested their label (i.e., a self-directed condition; see Figure 3 for an illustrative example). In this study, children made more restrictive generalizations of word labels (i.e., only to other nearly identical items) when examples were selected and labeled by a teacher, compared with when they selected examples themselves, even though the final information conveyed in both conditions was identical.

One explanation of this finding is that children inform their generalizations with knowledge of how data was generated or gathered.  Such  sampling  assumptions  have  been  a  topic  of extensive discussion both in machine learning (Mitchell, 1997) and psychology (Griffiths &amp; Tenenbaum, 2001; Shepard, 1987; Tenenbaum, 1999). Under 'strong' sampling, training  examples  are  selected  from  the  space  of  items  that  fall  within  the target concept. This assumption may be appropriate when the process by which examples were collected is selective, such as being  picked  by  a  helpful  and  knowledgable  teacher  (Xu  &amp;

Fig. 3. An illustrative example that conceptually matches the task used by Xu and Tenenbaum (2007). At left is a bucket of different colored balls. In one scenario, a knowledgeable teacher picks out four red balls and labels each a 'Dax' (middle). In the second scenario (at right), the learner herself picks up four balls from the bucket that just happen to be red and learns via feedback that all four objects are called 'Dax.' The learner may then be asked whether the label 'Dax' should also apply to other balls in the bucket that are not red. Different inferences  in  these  two  scenarios  might  stem  from  the  learner's  assumptions  about  the process that gathered the examples.

<!-- image -->

Tenenbaum, 2007). This is also consistent with ideas of pedagogical or intentional sampling (e.g., Gweon et al., 2010; Shafto &amp; Goodman, 2008; Shafto, Goodman, &amp; Frank, in press). The assumption of strong (or pedagogical) sampling allows more restrictive generalization from smaller sets of examples. However,  the  strong  sampling  assumption  may  be  inappropriate when information is gathered independently of the target concept (such as when samples are gathered randomly or by a selfdirected learner who is ignorant of the true pattern). In these cases, self-directed learners might at first default to a 'weak' sampling  assumption.  Weak  sampling  implies  less  restrictive generalization because the sampling process itself conveys no information about the to-be-learned concept. These ideas have been formalized within a Bayesian learning framework that successfully explains human inference and generalization across a variety  of  situations  (Griffiths  &amp;  Tenenbaum,  2001;  Tenenbaum, 1999). Critically, this line of work shows that even in cases where two people experience identical information, learning may depend on the role of each individual in gathering it.

As mentioned earlier, enhanced memory under volitional memory encoding has been associated with greater coordination across a network of brain regions involved in executive control, attention, and memory encoding (Voss et al., 2011). However, further work is needed to determine how different components of self-directed decision making contribute to this effect. For example, deciding what to study often relies on a metacognitive judgment about what has already been learned, an introspective process that can enhance memory independently of any further study (Kimball &amp; Metcalfe, 2003). Even in  the  absence  of  such  metacognitive  monitoring,  however, learning may be enhanced by basic processes related to making  decisions.  Explanations  for  such  decision-driven  advantages include the psychological benefits of free choice (Leotti, Iyengar, &amp; Oshsner, 2010), greater engagement with the learning task, and memory enhancements related to active exploration (Kaplan et al., 2012).

## Decision-driven explanations

Independent  of  different  data  or  sampling  assumptions,  the very act of planning interventions or deciding which information to collect may necessitate a more thorough evaluation of the problem structure and of how observed experience relates to  different  hypotheses  (Bruner,  1961).  Sobel  and  Kushnir (2006) showed that learners who designed their own interventions on a causal system learned better than yoked participants who either passively observed the same sequence of actions or re-created the same choices made by others (see also Markant &amp; Gureckis,  2010;  Steyvers  et  al.,  2003).  Because  the  data experienced  by  both  groups  is  identical,  'yoked'  learning studies such as these isolate the influence of individual choice from differences in information.

It is important to note that decision-driven effects may also interact with the data-driven differences described above. For example,  as  argued  in  Markant  and  Gureckis  (2010),  selfdirected learners can select information that would test the set of hypotheses they are currently entertaining whereas yoked participants  (who  may  be  considering  different  hypotheses about a task) may gain less from the same sequence of data. Markant  and  Gureckis  described  a  simple  computational model that accounts for self-directed learning advantages in terms  of  the  congruence  between  experienced  data  and  the knowledge held by the individual.

In summary, self-directed sampling does not appear to simply be a special case of passive learning in which an action is first required by the learner but may have broad implications both for what is learned and what is learnable. In particular, self-directed information sampling appears to improve the rate of  learning  and  the  fidelity  of  memory,  can  reveal  novel  or useful information about the structure of the environment, can

influence  patterns  of  inference  and  generalization,  and  can alter subsequent decision-making strategies.

## Curious Machines:   A Computational Perspective on Self-Directed Learning

Paralleling  this  psychological  literature  are  recent  developments in machine learning under the name 'active learning.' Unlike traditional learning models that involve passively fed training  data,  this  work  has  explored  algorithms  that  gather their own training data (see Settles, 2009 or Sutton &amp; Barto, 1998, for reviews). For example, consider the document classification  problem  confronting  many  Internet  search  engine companies in which data (e.g., Web pages, videos) are nearly infinite, but obtaining information about the content of each document  may  involve  costly  human  operators.  Such  problems are analogous to the data-rich, instruction-sparse environments that confront a young child. In these cases, it would be ideal if the classifier system could make intelligent decisions about which information is expected to be nonredundant and request additional information for only those items. This motivation has been used to develop 'curious' machine learners that can perform as well as passive approaches but with less training. Such techniques have been recently applied to a wide range of learning problems, including sequential decision  making  (i.e.,  reinforcement  learning),  causal  learning, and categorization.

The formal methods developed in this line of work have the potential  to  make  important  contributions  to  research  on human learning. First, research in this area has attempted to formally delineate the tasks and environments in which selfdirected  sampling  may  result  in  improvements  in  learning efficiency (Angluin, 1988; Cohn, Atlas, &amp; Ladner, 1994; Dasgupta, Kalai, &amp; Monteleoni, 2005). Typically these analyses take  the  form  of  mathematical  proofs  establishing  the  bestand worst-case advantages for various information-gathering strategies and learning models. To the degree that the abstract properties of the tasks and models studied in this literature can be mapped on to educationally relevant learning tasks, such analyses may offer insight into which environments are best suited for self-directed learning. Second, this work has emphasized how self-directed information sampling might be combined  with  other  types  of  learning  (such  as  unsupervised learning;  Dasgupta, 2010). Finally, research in this area has designed  'sampling  norms'  or  choice  utility  functions  that assign value to future observations on the basis of their potential for revealing information (MacKay, 1992; Seung, Opper, &amp; Sompolinsky, 1992). Such proposals provide a framework for studying how humans evaluate different sources of information and make sampling decisions.

It is also possible to use the pitfalls from the machine learning  literature  to  better  understand  the  limitations  of  selfdirected  learning  as  a  pedagogical  strategy.  For  example,  a well-recognized weakness of many active learning algorithms is  that  if  the  learning  model  is  incorrectly  specified  for  the domain (i.e., the space of possible hypotheses or representations within the model does not encompass the to-be-learned concept or assigns it a very low a priori probability), the information  samples  acquired  will  be  severely  biased  (MacKay, 1992). This may result in a nefarious feedback loop in which an  incorrect  early  impression  of  a  problem  leads  to  biased information gathering, which in turn reinforces or fails to correct early impressions, similar to confirmation bias in human psychology (Nickerson, 1998; Wason, 1960). In this instance, something that might at first seem like an 'irrational' bias on the part of a learner may instead be thought of as a misspecified model of the learning task or environment.

In addition, the focus on minimizing costs or uncertainty in artificial  systems may fail to capture the information that is most useful for human learners. For example, active machine classifiers often preferentially explore the boundaries of a concept (i.e., the 'margin'), but the same borderline cases may be less useful to a human learner because they are the ones most likely  to  be  associated  with  inconsistent  feedback  (Ashby, Boynton,  &amp;  Lee,  1994).  In  one  example,  Lang  and  Baum (1992) developed a handwritten digit recognition system that could synthesize novel characters and could ask a human oracle for feedback. The system quickly began testing borderline examples that were difficult for the human assistant to classify (e.g., those that resemble both a '3' and an '8'), leading to inconsistent  trial-to-trial  feedback  that  confused  the  system. Although borderline or ambiguous items may be highly valuable in terms of information, they can often be nonrepresentative  of  the  overall  concept.  However,  human  learners  often benefit from training on mixtures of extreme, typical, and borderline examples (Avrahami et al., 1997; Clapper &amp; Bower, 2002; Elio &amp; Anderson, 1984; see also Dasgupta, 2010, for a discussion in the context of machine learning). One interesting question  is  whether  human  learners  themselves  prefer  to gather information that is representative or primarily diagnostic  of  a  target  concept  (e.g.,  G.  L.  Murphy  &amp;  Ross,  2005). These issues become particularly important when evaluating whether these machine learning algorithms might be used as assistive training tools for human learners.

Overall, this area of machine learning research shares many of  the  same  goals  as  research  on  self-directed  learning  in humans and provides a useful set of formal tools for analyzing such behaviors. In the following section, we highlight three examples in which analyses of learning tasks with machines have shown advantages for self-direction, and we attempt to distill relevant psychological insights.

## Example 1: Active sampling for generalization

As noted earlier, in data-rich, feedback-sparse learning environments, it is beneficial to maximize the informativeness of each training experience. Machine learning researchers have repeatedly  shown  that  learning  algorithms  that  can  strategically select their own training data can reduce the number of training exposures needed to reach a particular level of error

compared  with  equivalent  models  without  this  capability (e.g., Angluin, 1988; Castro et al., 2008; Cohn et al., 1994; Dasgupta, 2010; Dasgupta et al., 2005; Lang &amp; Baum, 1992; MacKay, 1992; K. P. Murphy, 2001; Seung et al., 1992; Tong &amp; Koller, 2001). One way to quantify the advantages of selfdirected  learning  is  depicted  in  the  so-called  banana  curve, which plots expected accuracy as a function of the number of training trials (analogous to a standard human learning curve; see  Fig.  4,  left  panel).  The  difference  between  the  curves shows  the  advantage  given  by  active,  self-directed  learning over the passive training sequence. The characteristic pattern is that self-directed learning can lead to similar levels of performance  with  less  training  even  within  the  same  learning architecture.  For  example,  in  Figure  4  (left  panel),  the  selfdirected  model  needs  only  one  third  as  much  training  to achieve the same level of performance as the passive model.

at a specific height), the threshold estimation problem becomes equivalent to a binary search (dividing the remaining search interval in half with each query) and error ε can be achieved with O(log(1/ ε )) queries, an exponential reduction in the number of labeled examples. In other words, an idealized learner would be much faster by asking targeted  questions  than  by randomly sampling examples to query. Recent studies of selfdirected category learning show similar advantages for human learners  (Castro  et  al.,  2008;  Markant  &amp;  Gureckis,  2010). What is important is that these analyses highlight how advantages for self-directed learning might arise simply as a consequence  of  effective  information  gathering,  independent  of deeper encoding or attentional effects.

The  following  example  provides  some  intuition  for  why this works (Dasgupta, 2010; Settles, 2009). Consider a simple unidimensional classification task in which the goal is to accurately  estimate  some  unknown  threshold, θ , below  which items are in Category A and above which items are in Category B (e.g., learning the building height at which a structure becomes a 'skyscraper'). If the acceptable error in our estimate of the true threshold is ε , formal learning theory shows it is  enough  to  'passively'  sample  O(1/ ε )  random  (uniformly distributed) training items with labels (Valiant, 1984).  In this 1 case, more data help better identify the threshold, but many of those observations will be uninformative (the threshold always will lie between the tallest negative example of a skyscraper and the shortest building called a skyscraper). Instead, if we can query particular items (e.g., ask questions about buildings

The extension of this basic idea to more complex learning tasks  has  been  established  in  numerous  domains  (Settles, 2009). Of course, not all problems reduce to simple threshold estimation.  Typically,  in  more  complex  learning  problems, decisions  about  the  potential  value  of  new  observations  are based on the current 'beliefs' of the learning agent. For example, the learning system might request the label for items that it is more uncertain about how to classify (a bit like asking for help). This uncertainty can be quantified or computed in various ways. For example, one way to make information sampling  decisions  is  to  maintain  a  'committee'  of  different hypotheses or mental models of the situation and to use the disagreement among them as a measure of potential for information (cf. Seung et al., 1992). The intuition is that disagreement  between  the  various  hypotheses  are  places  in  which targeted information would be most helpful. This idea has a long  history  in  the  philosophy  of  science  wherein  'crucial experiments' that decide between alternative theories should

Fig. 4. Left: Example of a 'banana curve' typical of computational active learning applications. The curves compare expected error as a function of training episodes for both self-directed and passive learners (Settles, 2009). Uncertainty-driven self-directed sampling can often achieve the same classification performance with an order of magnitude of less training. For example, the passive learning algorithm reaches asymptote at Trial 300, whereas the self-directed learning algorithm reaches a similar point at Trial 100 (one third as much training). Middle: The top row shows three possible causal relationships between a set of three variables (X, Y, Z). The arrows indicate the direction of causality (e.g., in Structure 1, X causes both Y and Z). The structures are grouped with a dotted line reflecting Markov equivalence classes. Structures grouped in a Markov equivalence class are indistinguishable by passive observation alone (e.g., ignoring time, the pattern of resulting effects for 1 and 2 are identical). However, by actively intervening on the variables, the learner can disambiguate the causal structure. The bottom row shows a set of possible interventions on the structure (the hand represents a variable whose value is set by the learner; the variables with stars are 'turned on' following the intervention). In the first example, the learner manipulates X and finds that both Y and Z turn on. As a result, the learner might rule out Structure 3 (for simplicity, assume deterministic causes and no background causes). In contrast, in the second example, the learner manipulates the value of Y and observes that only Z turns on. This effectively rules out Structure 1. Right: The explore-exploit dilemma. Two options are available with known values, but a third has not been sampled. The learner must decide whether to 'exploit' the known source of reward (the path leading to the $10 option) or to 'explore' the unknown and potentially more valuable option leading to the question mark.

<!-- image -->

allow  more  effective  discovery  (Bacon,  1620/1902;  Platt, 1964; Popper, 1935/1959). Such uncertainty-driven information  sampling  also  has  a  natural  framing  in  informationtheoretic  terms  using  concepts  like  entropy  or  KullbackLeibler divergence (MacKay, 1992), ideas that closely parallel early work on hypothesis testing and information selection in cognitive psychology (Oaksford &amp; Chater, 1994). One major difference is the scale at which these approaches may apply. Early  work  on  hypothesis  testing  in  psychology  considered tasks  where  there  were  only  a  few  possible  hypotheses, whereas recent work in machine learning applies to real-world problems with possibly millions of alternative hypotheses.

In  summary,  recent  machine  learning  research  provides quantitative support for the idea that active information selection  can  improve  the  rate  of  learning  and  generalization.  In addition,  research  in  this  area  has  explored  formal  ways  a learning agent might assign value to future information samples on the basis of the agent's current uncertainty. Each of these advances go beyond early work on hypothesis testing in cognitive psychology while potentially providing novel insights into self-directed learning in humans.

## Example 2: Intervention-based causal learning

Self-directed learning can also be critical in the discovery of causal  relations.  As  described  above,  causal  relationships establish which variables or events in the world are the consequence of other variables or events (e.g., do cell phones cause cancer?). The top row of Figure 4 (middle panel) shows three possible causal relationships between a set of simple variables. To make the discussion concrete, Variable X might represent 'cell phone usage,' Variable Y might be 'industrial chemicals production,'  and Variable  Z  might  represent  'cancer  rates.' Structure  1  thus  represents  a  scenario  in  which  cell  phones cause both industrial chemicals and cancer (a common cause structure). Structure 2 represents the causal relation in which cell  phones  cause  the  production  of  industrial  chemicals, which in turn cause cancer (a causal chain). Ignoring temporal ordering, these two structures (1 and 2) are indistinguishable through observation alone because both produce a pattern of intercorrelation  between  the  variables  X,  Y,  and  Z  (i.e., increases in cell phones usage will be associated with increases in chemicals and cancer). Formally speaking, these two structures  represent  a  'Markov  equivalence  class'  (Pearl,  2000). However, a learner who actively intervenes on the system by fixing the value of different variables can begin to disambiguate  the  causal  structure  (see  bottom  row  of  Fig.  4,  middle panel). For example, after 'manipulating' or 'experimenting' with Variable Y and observing no effect on Z (independent of the possible base-rate occurrence of Z), the learner can rule out the causal chain structure. Active, intervention-driven causal learning  can  be  viewed  as  a  form  of  uncertainty  reduction within the space of possible causal models that might relate the variables. In Bayesian terms, each possible causal structure in the top row of Figure 4 (middle panel) might represent a hypothesis, and the goal is to reduce the uncertainty about the true structure by making maximally informative interventions. In machine learning, computational systems have been developed  to  predict  which  intervention  or  experiment  to perform in order to best learn about the causal system (K. P. Murphy, 2001; Tong &amp; Koller, 2001). Such approaches may greatly inform our understanding of how people interact with causal systems in order to learn. For example, Steyvers et al. (2003) compared a similar model with the behavior of human participants in an intervention-based causal learning task and found that human intervention decisions were well predicted by  the  goal  of  reducing  entropy  (i.e.,  uncertainty)  over  the space of possible causal models.

## Example 3: Exploration-exploitation trade-offs and learning from reinforcement

Active  information  acquisition  also  figures  prominently  in theories of computational reinforcement learning (CRL; Sutton  &amp;  Barto,  1998).  In  CRL,  learning  is  viewed  as  an attempt to maximize the reward that an agent can receive from its environment.  In pursuit of this goal, learners must exploit 2 resources that are known to be productive (Fig. 4, right panel). However,  given  that  the  full  distribution  of  rewards  in  the world is usually unknown, agents must balance the desire to exploit options that have been productive in the past with the need  to  explore  (i.e.,  gather  information  about)  relatively unknown outcomes. For example, imagine trying to decide the best restaurant at which to eat in a large city. Often we face a dilemma in that we could continue eating at our local favorite, but are always unsure whether a better restaurant exists nearby. Thus, our challenge is to balance the desire to 'exploit' options that are known to be good against possible gains from 'exploring' (i.e., sampling) new alternatives.

Outside of a few domains (Gittins &amp; Jones, 1979), the optimal solution to this exploration-exploitation trade-off is computationally  intractable.  As  a  result,  many  CRL  algorithms developed in machine learning assume that learners engage in stochastic, random exploration (e.g., the 'Softmax' rule proposed by Sutton &amp; Barto, 1998), and this default assumption often carries over into human research that uses CRL as a theoretical model of human learning (Daw, O'Doherty, Seymour, Dayan, &amp; Dolan, 2006).

However,  other  CRL  research  has  considered  alternative exploration  strategies,  such  as  'novelty  bonuses,'  which reward  selections  of  actions  that  have  not  been  sampled recently  (Kakade  &amp;  Dayan,  2002)  or  which  use  cumulative absolute prediction error as a signal for guiding exploration (Schmidhuber, 1991). The intuition is that exploration should be devoted to areas of the environment that are unfamiliar or have not been sampled recently (especially when the environment  is  continually  changing).  Consistent  with  these  ideas, there is evidence that novelty may serve as a neurobiological signal that engages exploratory behaviors in human learners (Wittmann,  Daw,  Seymour,  &amp;  Dolan,  2008).  Alternatively,

prediction  error  (i.e.,  the  inability  to  correctly  predict  outcomes) can be a signal about the need for additional learning about particular parts of the environment. For example, if a person frequently has unpredictable eating experiences at Italian restaurants, it could be a cue that more learning is needed about this category of restaurant. An agent that can monitor its own prediction failures (a type of 'metacognition' or performance monitoring) can use this information to guide exploration. Alternatively, at some point, the learner might decide that the variance in Italian restaurants in irreducible (i.e., it is due to intrinsic variability of the restaurants rather than a lack of understanding;  see  Yu  &amp;  Dayan,  2003,  for  a  discussion  of expected  and  unexpected  uncertainty).  Finally,  exploration may also be allocated to reduce uncertainty about the possible states of the environment as in the active learning and causal learning  research  discussed  above  (Kaelbing,  Littman,  &amp; Cassandra, 1998).

## Open Questions and Future Challenges

We conclude our review by discussing some of the open questions  and  future  challenges  confronting  the  study  of  selfdirected learning.

## How do people make information collection decisions?

Relative to what is known about how people make decisions in economic contexts, the question of how people make decisions in order to gain information is less well understood. As outlined above, there are a variety of ways that human learners might evaluate  the  potential  information  content  of  future  observations. At one extreme, human information sampling behavior could be effectively random or loosely guided by past experience (i.e., stochastic exploration, as in Sutton &amp; Barto, 1998). Conversely,  information  sampling  decisions  could  reflect  a belief-driven  process  that  gathers  specific  information  in  an attempt  to  reduce  uncertainty  (Knox,  Otto,  Stone,  &amp;  Love, 2012;  Kruschke,  2008;  J.  D.  Nelson,  2005;  J.  D.  Nelson, McKenzie, Cottrell, &amp; Sejnowski, 2010; Steyvers et al., 2003) or costs (Gureckis &amp; Markant, 2009; Juni et al., 2011).

A  key  focus  of  ongoing  research  is  to  better  distinguish these  alternatives.  For  example,  recent  work  by  Nelson  and colleagues  has  looked  for  an  information  sampling  'norm' that best describes human information search in a variety of tasks (J. D. Nelson, 2005; J. D. Nelson et al., 2010). Many of these information sampling norms parallel those developed in the machine learning and statistics research on active information sampling. Markant and Gureckis (2012b) examined selfdirected learning in a relatively complex rule learning task that gave participants the ability to 'design and test' stimuli they wanted to learn about. On a subset of trials, participants were asked to report their uncertainty about how to classify the item they had just designed. Using a computer model-based analysis,  we found that people tended to prefer testing items that discriminated between two hypotheses or categories at a time rather than information that reduced the 'global' uncertainty across  all  categories  (somewhat  related  to  Tweney  et  al.'s [1980] observation that people are effective at testing between two alternative hypotheses). The models tested in Markant and Gureckis (2012b) were motivated by various information sampling norms originally proposed in the machine learning literature  (Settles,  2009).  Relatedly,  Kincannon  and  Spellman (2003) showed that people prefer gathering different kinds of evidence when generalizing a hypothesis to all members of a category compared with limiting a hypothesis to only members of a category, suggesting that framing effects may also influence information sampling. Of course, a further challenge is that people might use multiple strategies or sampling norms at various stages of learning. Developing a complete account of human information sampling behavior will thus require a fuller understanding of how basic drives (like curiosity or novelty  preferences;  e.g.,  Berlyne,  1960)  interact  with  beliefdriven, uncertainty-reducing sampling processes.

Contemporary  machine  learning  research  and  computational modeling may prove critical in answering these questions.  For  example,  one  lesson  from  the  machine  learning literature is that understanding what information an agent will seek at any point in time requires a moment-to-moment model of the agent's current state of knowledge or belief. Along these lines, we have attempted to fit learning and decision models to the  trial-by-trial  information  gathering  decisions  of  human participants (Gureckis &amp; Markant, 2009; Markant &amp; Gureckis, 2012a). By tracking the learning sequence for each participant (along  with  a  plausible  model  of  how  people  update  their beliefs), these models may allow for a stronger test of various hypotheses about how people evaluate the potential information to be gained from future observations.

## What environments are most likely to show advantages for self-directed learning?

Interfaces  between  basic  cognitive  research  and  machine learning may provide insight into which tasks or environments are best suited to self-directed learning (an issue with implications  for  education  policy).  As  one  example,  Markant  and Gureckis (2010) examined self-directed learning across a variety of different category structures. They found that participants' prior biases about the target structure strongly guided their search behavior and that self-directed learning was most effective when a participant's prior hypothesis space was congruent  with  that  of  the  target  concept.  These  results  echo research in machine learning that suggests that active information sampling is less effective when the learner's hypothesis space does not encompass the target concept or assigns it a low probability  of  being  correct  (MacKay,  1992).  These  results highlight a potential paradox. If people (or machines) use their current  beliefs  or  understanding  to  drive  their  information acquisition, and those beliefs are incorrect, sampling will tend to be biased and learning will suffer. In the most extreme case,

if the learner has no way to represent a particular concept, then there is no way that self-directed learning will lead them to 'discover' it, and their information gathering decisions will appear consistently suboptimal.

Predicting  whether  a  particular  problem  is  amenable  to self-directed  learning  thus  depends  critically  on  an  understanding of the learner's representation of the task. In particular,  self-direction  is  likely  to  speed  learning  in  situations  in which there is a large space of possible things to learn but the learner  has  a  proper  understanding  or  representation  of  this space. A failure of self-directed learning may reflect errors in the  learner's  conception  of  the  problem  domain  rather  than poor  information  gathering.  The  critical  question  is  thus whether  self-directed  learning  allows  people  to  overcome default strategies and prior biases when required by the problem they face. Such analyses may help to predict when selfdirected learning will be more effective when used in concert with  other  instructions  methods.  For  example,  situations  in which a teacher provides helpful or informative examples can correct early misconceptions, help elaborate the space of concepts or stimulus properties that are relevant, and then allow more effective self-directed learning within that space. Such ideas  have  interesting  parallels  with  the  tension  between 'direct instruction' and 'discovery learning' in the education literature (e.g., Klahr &amp; Nigam, 2004).

Coming from a memory optimization perspective, Son and Sethi  (2010)  presented  a  mathematical  analysis  of  learning environments in which adaptive allocation of effort  is  most likely to lead to more effective learning. They pointed out that the effectiveness of various self-directed study-time allocation strategies  depends  critically  on  the  'uptake'  function  that relates  time  spent  studying  to  performance.  Figure  5  shows two example functions. The first (denoted by the solid line) shows an item for which time spent studying monotonically increases memory strength (a concave function). The second (denoted by the dashed line) shows an item for which early effort results in little performance changes, but after a certain threshold  of  effort,  large  gains  are  realized  (an  S-shaped

Time Allocated

<!-- image -->

function). These differences might be related to the nature of the  material  being  studied  (some  information  one  struggles with for some time before it starts making sense). One study strategy a learner might adopt is to allocate effort to items that seem to be returning the greatest improvement in competence per  unit  time  spent.  For  environments  in  which  the  update function is nonconcave (e.g., S-shaped), this particular strategy  will  tend  to  neglect  poorly  learned  items  (particularly those for which an additional 'investment' of study time is needed to increase the rate of learning, as in the dotted line in Fig.  5). As  a  result,  self-directed  study  time  allocation  will tend to be suboptimal in environments that contain items with this property. Research on this question is undoubtedly in an early stage, but the potential payoff is a better understanding of  how  learning  strategy  (self-directed  or  passive)  interacts with the informational structure of learning problems.

## A unified view of self-directed learning

Despite  the  many  advantages  described  in  this  review,  selfdirected learning can also lead to many learning disadvantages (a point gathering renewed attention in education; Mayer, 2004). For example, a now famous quote from Atkinson (1972a) reads:

One way to avoid  the  challenge  and  responsibility  of developing a theory of instruction is to adopt the view that the learner is the best judge of what to study, when to study, and how to study. I am alarmed by the number of individuals who advocate this position despite a great deal of negative evidence. My data, and the data of others, indicate that the learner is not a particularly effective decision maker. (p. 930)

This observation is echoed in the extensive work showing that people are often biased in how they select new information when learning (e.g., failing to differentiate between information that would confirm or disconfirm their current beliefs; Klayman &amp; Ha, 1987; Skov &amp; Sherman, 1986; Wason, 1960). Biased information collection can skew understanding about true patterns in the environment and may underlie a variety of  cognitive biases (Denrell, 2007; Fiedler, 2000; Fiedler &amp; Juslin, 2006; Hertwig et al., 2004; Juslin et al., 2007; March, 1996).  In  addition,  people  frequently  exhibit  metacognitive illusions (e.g., Koriat &amp; Bjork, 2005, 2006) that can lead to deficiencies  in  self-directed  learning.  For  example,  students often  confuse  the  sense  of  perceptual  fluency  gained  from massed practice with true long-term learning, leading to suboptimal preferences for massed practice over spaced practice (Son &amp; Kornell, 2009).

How do we reconcile all these potential disadvantages for self-directed learning with the results reviewed in this article suggesting the opposite? We argue that research on this topic may  benefit  from  a  more  unified  theoretical  perspective offered by the parallel work in machine learning. Leveraging a computational-level understanding of these basic issues has a

number of advantages. To date, the field has yet to arrive at a comprehensive understanding of when self-directed learning will or will not succeed. For example, although in some situations  people  show  a  robust  tendency  to  seek  confirmation, other work has found evidence that people seek disconfirmatory  evidence  (e.g.,  Gorman,  Stafford,  &amp;  Gorman,  1987; Markant &amp; Gureckis, 2010; Nelson et al., 2010). Up to this point, it has been difficult to integrate these disparate results independent of the specific task or context in which behavior has been studied. In contrast, computational models can potentially expose general principles of learning that apply across many situations. In addition, although the tasks considered in this  review  are  relatively  simple,  the  applications  of  the machine learning approaches have extended to complex, realworld problems. This suggests that aspects of the theoretical approach may scale gracefully beyond laboratory tasks.

## From self-directed learning to assistive training

Given that people are not always optimal self-directed learners, one promising avenue for future research is to use insight gained from the study of active information sampling (in both human and machines) to develop assistive training methods. Instead of predicting what information people will choose on their  own  to  solve  a  task,  cognitive  models  can  be  used  to determine what information would be most helpful to the individual  (given  the  nature  of  the  task  and  measures  of  prior learning). This  inversion  of  formal  models  into  an  assistive learning device may help shortcut the time required to develop perceptual  or  conceptual  expertise  in  a  domain  and  may  be used to tailor learning experiences to the strengths and weaknesses of the individual learners (an approach that has been used with some success in the memory literature; Atkinson, 1972a,  1972b;  Pavlik  &amp;  Anderson,  2008).  For  example, Atkinson (1972b) compared recall performance for a set of 84 German-English vocabulary translations following three different study techniques: a self-directed condition in which participants made their own choices about which pair to study on each trial, random selection of study pairs, and a model-based optimization technique that attempted to predict at each point in time which study item would maximize the number of 'permanently  learned'  items.  The  finding  was  that  the  modelbased  adaptive  training  technique  led  to  better  subsequent memory  than  the  other  two  strategies  (79%  recall  for  the model training sequence versus 58% recall for self-directed decisions).  Similar  gains  have  been  demonstrated  by  Pavlik and  Anderson  (2008)  using  the  ACT-R  model  of  memory. Relatedly,  Castro  et  al.  (2008)  reported  faster  learning  of  a simple  binary  classification  problem  with  a  procedure  in which a computational model selected training examples for the learner. Similar model-based approaches have been extended to predict human information needs in tasks as rich as  a  complex  video  game  (e.g.,  Love,  Jones,  Tomlinson,  &amp; Howe, 2008).

In conclusion, although the concept of self-directed learning has had a widespread influence on education research, this idea has received less attention in basic studies of learning and memory. As our review highlights, the study of self-directed learning opens new, relatively underexplored avenues for psychological research. However, progress on these issues will require experimenters to relinquish the control they are accustomed to exerting over the learning process and let individuals freely explore and sample information in their environment.  In  combination  with  recent  advances  in  machine learning,  it  is  increasingly  possible  to  make  sense  of  such highly individualized learning sequences. In addition, machine learning research provides new quantitative tools for analyzing the effectiveness of self-directed learning and how it might vary across learning environments. A more complete understanding  of  the  psychological  processes  underlying  selfdirected information sampling behavior may help bridge the gap between basic cognitive research and education research.

## Acknowledgments

The  U.S.  Government  is  authorized  to  reproduce  and  distribute reprints  for  governmental  purposes  notwithstanding  any  copyright annotation thereon. The views and conclusions contained herein are those  of  the  authors  and  should  not  be  interpreted  as  necessarily representing the official policies or endorsements, either expressed or implied, of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity, the Department of the Interior, or the U.S. Government. We thank Sean Kang,  Lisa  Son,  and  Barbara  Spellman  for  helpful  comments.  In addition,  we'd  like  to  thank  Stephanie  Chen,  Kari  Kretch,  Burr Settles,  and  Dylan  Simon  for  reading  an  earlier  version  of  this article.

## Declaration of Conflicting Interests

The  authors  declared  that  they  had  no  conflicts  of  interest  with respect to their authorship or the publication of this article.

## Funding

This  work  was  supported  by  the  Intelligence  Advanced  Research Projects Activity via Department of the Interior Contract D10PC20023.

## Notes

- 1. The O() is a common notation in computer science that reflects how the running time of a program changes as the size of its input increases. In this example, with passive learning, the training time of the simple threshold estimation algorithm would scale with 1/ ε (the length of processing would increase for smaller values of ε ).
- 2. A key difference between active learning research and CRL centers on the nature of what is being optimized. In CRL, the rewards in the environment are unknown, and learning is about discovering both where the reward is in the environment and a decision policy that can optimize that reward. In contrast, active learning involves optimizing a  known  utility  function  (typically  model  uncertainty).  However, both critically involve active information gathering in the pursuit of learning.

## References

Adolph, K., &amp; Eppler, M. (1998). Development of visually guided locomotion. Ecological Psychology, 10 ,  303-321.  doi:10.1080/ 10407413.1998.9652687

Angluin, D. (1988). Queries and concept learning. Machine Learning, 2 , 319-342. doi:10.1007/BF00116828

Ashby,  F.  G.,  Boynton,  G.,  &amp;  Lee,  W.  W.  (1994).  Categorization response time with multidimensional stimuli. Perception &amp; Psychophysics, 55 (1), 11-27. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.14.1.33

Ashby,  F.  G.,  &amp;  Gott,  R.  E.  (1988).  Decision  rules  in  the  perception and categorization of multidimensional stimuli. Journal of Experimental  Psychology:  Learning,  Memory,  and  Cognition, 14 (1), 33-53. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.14.1.33

Atkinson, R. (1972a). Ingredients for a theory of instruction. American Psychologist, 27 , 921-931. doi:10.1037/h0033572

Atkinson, R. (1972b). Optimizing the learning of a second-language vocabulary. Journal of Experimental Psychology, 96 ,  124-129. doi:10.1037/h0033475

Avrahami, J., Kareev,  Y .,  Bogot,  Y .,  Caspi,  R.,  Dunaevsky,  S.,  &amp;  Lerner, S. (1997). Teaching by examples: Implication for the process of category  acquisition. The  Quarterly  Journal  of  Experimental Psychology, Section A, 50 (3), 586-606. doi:10.1080/713755719

Bacon, F. (1902). Novum organum . (J. Dewey, Ed.). New York, NY: P. F. Collier. (Original work published 1620)

Berlyne, D. E. (1960). Conflict, arousal, and curiosity .  New York, NY: McGraw-Hill.

Berlyne, D. E., &amp; Frommer Frances, D. (1966). Some determinants of the incidence and content of children's questions. Child Development, 37 (1), 177-189. doi:10.2307/1126438

Blair,  M.  R., Watson,  M.  R.,  Calen Walshe,  R.,  &amp;  Maj,  F.  (2009). Extremely selective attention: Eye-tracking studies of the dynamic allocation of attention to stimulus features in categorization. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 35 (5), 1196-1206. doi:10.1037/a0016272

Bruner,  J.  S.  (1961).  The  act  of  discovery. Harvard  Educational Review, 31 (1), 21-32.

Bruner, J. S., Goodnow, J. J., &amp; Austin, G. A. (1956). A study of thinking . New York, NY: Wiley.

Bruner, J. S., Jolly, A., &amp; Sylva, K. (1976). Play: Its role in development and evolution . New York, NY: Basic Books.

Castro,  R.,  Kalish,  C.,  Nowak,  R.,  Qian,  R.,  Rogers,  T.,  &amp;  Zhu, X. (2008). Human active learning. In D. Koller, Y. Bengio, D. Schuurmans, L. Bottou,  &amp; A.  Culotta  (Eds.), Advances neural information  processing  systems (V ol.  21,  pp.  241-248).  Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Chi,  M.  T.  H.  (2009).  Active-constructive-interactive:  A  conceptual framework for differentiating learning activities. Topics in Cognitive  Science,  1 , 73-105.  doi:10.1111/j.1756-8765.2008 .01005.x

Chouinard, M. (2007). Children's questions: A mechanism for cognitive  development. Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Development, 72 , 1-126. doi:10.1111/j.1540-5834.2007.00412.x

- Clapper,  J.  P.,  &amp;  Bower,  G.  H.  (2002). Adaptive  categorization  in unsupervised  learning. Journal  of  Experimental  Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 28 (5), 908-923. doi:10.1037/ 0278-7393.28.5.908
- Cohn,  D.,  Atlas,  L.,  &amp;  Ladner,  R.  (1994).  Improving  generalization  with  active  learning. Machine  Learning,  15 (2),  201-221. doi:10.1023/A:1022673506211
- Crutcher, R. J., &amp; Healy, A. F. (1989). Cognitive operations and the generation effect. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 15 (4), 669-675. doi:10.1037/02787393.15.4.669

Dasgupta, S. (2010). Two faces of active learning. Theoretical Computer Science, 412 (19), 1767-1781. doi:10.1016/j.tcs.2010.12.054 Dasgupta,  S.,  Kalai,  A.,  &amp;  Monteleoni,  C.  (2005).  Analysis  of perception-based active learning. In P.  Auer &amp; R. Meir (Eds.), Proceedings of 18th Annual Conference on Learning Theory (COLT) (pp.  249-263).  Heidelberg,  Germany:  Springer.  doi:10.1007/

11503415\_17

Daw, N. D., O'Doherty, J. P., Seymour, B., Dayan, P., &amp; Dolan, R. J. (2006). Cortical substrates for exploratory decisions in humans. Nature, 441 , 876-879. doi:10.1038/nature04766

Dempster, F.  N.  (1989).  Spacing  effects  and  their  implications  for theory and practice. Educational Psychology Review, 1 , 309-330. doi:10.1007/BF01320097

- Denrell, J. (2005). Why most people disapprove of me: Experience sampling in impression formation. Psychological Review, 112 (4), 951-978. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.112.4.951
- Denrell, J. (2007). Adaptive learning and risk taking. Psychological Review, 114 , 177-187. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.114.1.177

Dunlosky, J., &amp; Hertzog, C. (1998). Training programs to improve learning in later adulthood: Helping older adults educate themselves.  In  D.  J.  Hacker,  J.  Dunlosky,  &amp; A.  C.  Graesser  (Eds.), Metacognition in educational theory and practice (pp. 249-276). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.

Edwards,  W.  (1965).  Optimal  strategies  for  seeking  information: Models for statistics, choice reaction times, and human information  processing. Journal  of  Mathematical  Psychology,  2 ,  312329. doi:10.1016/0022-2496(65)90007-6

Elio, R., &amp; Anderson, J. R. (1984). The effects of information order and learning mode on schema abstraction. Memory &amp; Cognition, 12 , 20-30. doi:10.3758/BF03196994

- Fazio, R., Eiser, J., &amp; Shook, N. (2004). Attitude formation through exploration:  Valence  asymmetries. Journal  of  Personality  and Social  Psychology,  87 (3), 293-311.  doi:10.1037/0022-3514.87 .3.293
- Fiedler, K. (2000). Beware of samples! A cognitive-ecological sampling approach to judgment biases. Psychological Review, 107 , 659-676. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.107A659
- Fiedler,  K.,  &amp;  Juslin,  P.  (Eds.).  (2006). Information  sampling  and adaptive cognition . Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press.
- Gibson, E. (1988). Exploratory behavior in the development of perceiving, active, and the acquiring of knowledge. Annual Review of Psychology, 39 , 1-41. doi:10.1146/annurev.ps.39.020188.000245
- Gittins,  J.  C.,  &amp;  Jones,  D.  M.  (1979). A  dynamic  allocation  index for the discounted multiarmed bandit problem. Biometrika, 66 (3), 561-565. doi:10.1093/biomet/66.3.561
- Glenberg, A.  M.  (1979).  Component-levels  theory  of  the  effect  of spacing of repetitions on recall and recognition. Memory &amp; Cognition, 7 , 95-112. doi:10.3758/BF03197590

Gopnik,  A.,  Glymour,  C.,  Sobel,  D.,  Schulz,  L.,  Kushnir,  T.,  &amp; Danks, D. (2004). A theory of causal learning in children: Causal maps  and  Bayes  nets. Psychological  Review,  111 (1), 1-31. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.111.1.3

Gorman, M., Stafford, A., &amp; Gorman, M. (1987). Disconfirmation and dual hypotheses on a more difficult version of Wason's 2-4-6 task. The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 39 (1), 1-28. doi:10.1080/02724988743000006

Griffiths,  T.  L.,  &amp;  Tenenbaum,  J.  B.  (2001).  Generalization,  similarity,  and  Bayesian  inference. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 24 (4), 629-640. doi:10.1017/S0140525X01000061

Gureckis, T. M., &amp; Markant, D. M. (2009). Active learning strategies in  a  spatial  concept  learning  task.  In  N.  Taatgen,  H.  van  Rijn, L.  Schomaker,  &amp;  J.  Nerbonne  (Eds.), Proceedings  of  the  31st Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 31453150). Austin, TX: Cognitive Science Society.

Gweon, H., Tenenbaum, J., &amp; Schultz, L. E. (2010). Infants consider both the sample and the sampling process in inductive generalization. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA, 107 (20), 9066-9071. doi:10.1073/pnas.1003095107

Harman, K. L., Humphrey, G. K., &amp; Goodale, M. A. (1999). Active manual control of object views facilitates visual recognition. Current Biology, 9 , 1315-1318. doi:10.1016/S0960-9822(00)80053-6

Hau,  R.,  Pleskac,  T.  J.,  Kiefer,  J.,  &amp;  Hertwig,  R.  (2008).  The description-experience gap in risky choice: The role of sample size and experienced probabilities. Journal of Behavioral Decision Making, 21 , 493-518. doi:10.1002/bdm.598

Hebb, D. (1955). Drives and the CNS (Central nervous system). Psychological Review, 62 , 243-254. doi:10.1037/h0041823

Hertwig, R., Barron, G., Weber, E. U., &amp; Erev, I. (2004). Decisions from experience and the effect of rare events in risky choices. Psychological Science, 15 ,  534-539. doi:10.1111/j.0956-7976.2004 .00715.x

Hills,  T., &amp;  Hertwig,  R.  (2010).  Information  search  and  decisions from  experience:  Do  our  patterns  of  sampling  foreshadow our  decisions? Psychological  Science,  21 ,  1787-1792. doi:10.1177/0956797610387443

Huttenlocher, J. (1962). Effects of manipulation of attributes on efficiency  of  concept  formation. Psychological  Reports,  10 ,  503509. doi:10.2466/PR0.10.2.503-509

Jacoby, L. L. (1978). On interpreting the effects of repetition: Solving  a  problem  versus  remembering  a  solution. Journal  of  Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 17 (6), 649-668. doi:10.1016/ S0022-5371(78)90393-6

Juni, M. Z., Gureckis, T. M., &amp; Maloney, L. T. (2011). 'Don't stop 'till you get enough': Adaptive information sampling in a visuomotor estimation task. In L. Carlson, C. Holscher, &amp; T. Shipley (Eds.), Proceedings of the 33rd Annual Conference of the Cognitive  Science  Society (pp.  2854-2859). Austin, TX:  Cognitive Science Society.

Juslin,  P.,  Winman, A.,  &amp;  Hansson,  P.  (2007).  The  naive  intuitive statistician: A naive sampling model of intuitive confidence intervals. Psychological  Review,  114 , 678-703.  doi:10.1037/0033295X.114.3.678

Kaelbing,  L.,  Littman,  M.  L.,  &amp;  Cassandra, A.  R.  (1998).  Planning and  acting  in  partially  observable  stochastic  domains. Artificial

Intelligence  Journal,  101 ,  99-134.  doi:10.1016/S0004-3702(98) 00023-X

Kakade,  S.,  &amp;  Dayan,  P.  (2002).  Dopamine:  Generalization  and bonuses. Neural  Networks,  15 , 549-559.  doi:10.1016/S08936080(02)00048-5

Kaplan, R., Doeller, C. F., Barnes, G. R., Litvak, V ., Duzel, E., Bandettini, P . A., &amp; Burgess, N. (2012). Movement-related theta rhythm in humans: Coordinating self-directed hippocampal learning. PLoS Biology, 10 (2), e1001267. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1001267

Kemler  Nelson,  D.  G.,  Egan,  L.  C.,  &amp;  Holt,  M.  (2004).  When children  ask,  'What  is  it?'  What  do  they  want  to  know  about artifacts? Psychological  Science, 15 , 384-389.  doi:10.1111/ j.0956-7976.2004.00689.x

Kimball, D., &amp; Metcalfe, J. (2003). Delaying judgments of learning affects memory, not metamemory. Memory &amp; Cognition, 31 (6), 918-929. doi:10.3758/BF03196445

Kincannon, A., &amp; Spellman, B. A. (2003). The use of category and similarity information in limiting hypotheses. Memory &amp; Cognition, 31 (1), 114-132. doi:10.3758/BF03196087

Klahr, D., &amp; Nigam, M. (2004). The equivalence of learning paths in early science instruction. Psychological Science, 15 (10), 661667. doi:10.1111/j.0956-7976.2004.00737.x

Klayman,  J.,  &amp;  Ha,  Y.-W.  (1987).  Confirmation,  disconfirmation, and information in hypothesis testing. Psychological Review, 94 , 211-228. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.94.2.211

Knox,  W.  B.,  Otto,  A.  R.,  Stone,  P.  H.,  &amp;  Love,  B.  C.  (2012). The  nature  of  belief-directed exploratory  choice  in  human decision-making. Frontiers in Psychology, 2 ,  398. doi:10.3389/ fpsyg.2011.00398

Kolb,  D.  (1984). Experiential  learning:  Experience  as  the  source of  learning  and  development .  Englewood  Cliffs,  NJ:  Prentice Hall.

Koriat, A., &amp; Bjork, R. A. (2005). Illusions of competence in monitoring  one's  knowledge  during  study. Journal  of  Experimental Psychology:  Learning,  Memory,  and  Cognition,  31 ,  187-194. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.31.2.187

Koriat, A.,  &amp;  Bjork,  R. A.  (2006).  Illusions  of  competence  during study can be remedied by manipulations that enhance learners' sensitivity to retrieval conditions at test. Memory &amp; Cognition, 34 , 959-972. doi:10.3758/BF03193244

Kornell, N., &amp; Bjork, R. A. (2007). The promise and perils of selfregulated study. Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review, 14 (2), 219-224. doi:10.3758/BF03194055

Kornell, N., &amp; Bjork, R. A. (2008). Learning concepts and categories: Is spacing the 'enemy of induction'? Psychological Science, 19 , 585-592. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9280.2008.02127.x

Kornell,  N.,  &amp;  Metcalfe,  J.  (2006).  Study  efficacy  and  the  region of proximal learning framework. Journal of Experimental Psychology:  Learning,  Memory,  and  Cognition,  32 ,  609-622. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.32.3.609

Kruschke,  J.  (2008).  Bayesian  approaches  to  associative  learning: From  passive  to  active  learning. Learning  &amp;  Behavior,  36 (3), 210-226. doi:10.3758/LB.36.3.210

Kuhn, D., Black, J., Keselman, A., &amp; Kaplan, D. (2000). The development of cognitive skills to support inquiry learning. Cognition and Instruction, 18 (4), 495-523. doi:10.1207/S1532690XCI1804\_3

Kuhn, D., &amp; Brannock, J. (1977). Development of the isolation of variables scheme in experimental and 'natural experiment' contexts. Developmental psychology, 13 (1), 9-14. doi:10.1037/00121649.13.1.9

Kuhn,  D.,  &amp;  Ho.,  V.  (1980).  Self-directed  activity  and  cognitive development. Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology, 1 , 119-133. doi:10.1016/0193-3973(80)90003-9

Lagnado, D. A., &amp; Sloman, S. (2004). The advantage of timely intervention. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 30 , 856-876. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.30.4.856

Lang, K., &amp; Baum, E. (1992). Query learning can work poorly when a  human  oracle  is  used.  In Proceedings  of  IEEE  International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (pp. 335-340). Washington, DC: IEEE Press.

Leotti, L. A., Iyengar, S. S., &amp; Oshsner, K. N. (2010). Born to choose: The origins and value of the need for control. Trends Cognitive Science, 14 , 457-463. doi:10.1016/j.tics.2010.08.001

Lombrozo,  T.  (2006).  The  structure  and  function  of  explanations. Trends  in  Cognitive  Sciences,  10 (10),  464-470.  doi:10.1016/j. tics.2006.08.004

Love, B. C., Jones, M., Tomlinson, M. T., &amp; Howe, M. (2008). Predicting  information  needs:  Adaptive  display  in  dynamic  environments. In B. C. Love, K. McRae, &amp; V. M. Sloutsky (Eds.), Proceedings of the 30th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 875-880). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.

MacKay,  D.  J.  C.  (1992).  Information  based  objective  functions for  active  data  selection. Neural  Computation,  4 (4),  589-603. doi:10.1162/neco.1992.4.4.590

March,  J.  G.  (1996).  Learning  to  be  risk  averse. Psychological Review, 103 , 309-319. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.103.2.309

Markant, D., &amp; Gureckis, T. M. (2010). Category learning through active  sampling.  In  S.  Ohlsson  &amp;  R.  Catrambone  (Eds.), Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 248-253). Austin, TX: Cognitive Science Society.

Markant, D., &amp; Gureckis, T. M. (2012a). Does the utility of information  influence  sampling  behavior?  In  N.  Miyake,  D.  Peebles,  &amp; R. P. Cooper (Eds.), Proceedings of the 34th Annual Conference of  the  Cognitive  Science  Society. Austin, TX: Cognitive Science Society.

Markant, D., &amp; Gureckis, T. M. (2012b). One piece at a time: Learning complex rules through self-directed sampling. In N. Miyake, D.  Peebles,  &amp;  R.  P.  Cooper  (Eds.), Proceedings  of  the  34th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society . Austin, TX: Cognitive Science Society.

Mayer, R. E. (2004). Should there be a three-strikes rule against pure discovery  learning?  The  case  for  guided  methods  of  instruction. American Psychologist, 59 ,  14-19. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.59.1.14

- Metcalfe, J.  (2002).  Is  study  time  allocated  selectively  to  a  region of proximal learning. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 131 (3), 349-363.

Metcalfe, J. (2009). Metacognitive Judgments and control of study. Current  Directions  in  Psychological  Science,  18 (3),  159-163. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8721.2009.01628.x

Metcalfe,  J.,  &amp;  Kornell,  N.  (2003).  The  dynamics  of  learning  and allocation of study time to a region of proximal learning. Journal  of  Experimental  Psychology:  General,  132 (4),  530-542. doi:10.1037/0096-3445.132.4.530

Mills, C., Legare, C. H., Bills, M., &amp; Mejias, C. (2010). Preschoolers use questions as a tool to acquire knowledge from different sources. Journal  of  Cognition  and  Development,  11 ,  533-560. doi:10.1080/15248372.2010.516419

Mill, J. (1950). Philosophy of the scientific method . New York, NY: Hafner. (Original work published 1843)

- Mitchell, T. (1997). Machine learning . New York, NY: McGraw-Hill. Montessori,  M.  (1964). The  Montessori  method .  New  York,  NY: Schocken. (Original work published 1912)

Murphy,  G.  L.,  &amp;  Ross,  B.  H.  (2005).  The  two  faces  of  typicality in category-based  induction. Cognition,  95 (2), 175-200. doi:10.1016/j.cognition.2004.01.009

- Murphy, K. P. (2001). Active learning of causal Bayes net structure (Technical Report). Berkeley: Department of Computer Science, University of California.
- National Research Council. (1999). How people learn . Washington, DC: National Academies Press.
- Nelson, J. D. (2005). Finding useful questions: On Bayesian diagnosticity,  probability,  impact,  and  information  gain. Psychological Review, 112 (4), 979-999. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.112.4.979

Nelson, J. D., McKenzie, C. R. M., Cottrell, G. W., &amp; Sejnowski, T.  J.  (2010).  Experience  matters:  Information  acquisition  optimizes probability gain. Psychological Science, 21 (7), 960-969. doi:10.1177/0956797610372637

- Nelson,  T.  O.,  &amp;  Leonesio,  R.  J.  (1988). Allocation  of  self-paced study time and the 'labor-in-vain effect.' Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 14 , 676-686. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.14.4.676

Nelson, T. O., &amp; Narens, L. (1994). Why investigate metacognition? In J. Metcalfe &amp; A. P. Shimamura (Eds.), Metacognition: Knowing about knowing (pp. 1-25). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Nickerson, R. S. (1998). Confirmation bias: A ubiquitous phenomenon in many guises. Review of General Psychology, 2 (2), 175220. doi:10.1037/1089-2680.2.2.175

- Oaksford, M., &amp; Chater, N. (1994). A rational analysis of the selection task as optimal data selection. Psychological Review, 101 (4), 608-631.doi: 10.1037/0033-295X.101.4.608

Papert, S. (1980). Mindstorms: Children, computers, and powerful ideas . New York, NY: Basic Books.

Pavlik, P. I., &amp; Anderson, J. R. (2008). Using a model to compute the optimal schedule of practice. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, 14 (2), 101-117. doi:10.1037/1076-898X.14.2.101

- Payne, J. W., Bettman, J. R., &amp; Johnson, E. J. (1993). The adaptive decision  maker . Cambridge,  England:  Cambridge  University Press.
- Payne,  J.  W.,  Braunstein,  M.  L.,  &amp;  Carroll,  J.  S.  (1978).  Exploring predecisional behavior: An alternative approach to decision research. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance, 22 , 17-44.

Pearl, J. (2000). Causality: Models, reasoning, and inference . Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press.

- Piaget, J. (1930). The child's conception of physical causality . New York, NY: Harcourt, Brace.
- Platt, J. R. (1964). Strong inference. Science, 146 (3642), 347-353. doi:10.1126/science.146.3642.347
- Popper, K. R. (1959). The logic of scientific discovery . London, England: Hutchinson. (Original work published 1935)

Rehder,  B.,  &amp;  Hoffman,  A.  B.  (2005).  Eyetracking  and  selective attention in category learning. Cognitive Psychology, 51 ,  1-41. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.31.5.811

Rhodes,  M.,  Gelman,  S.  A.,  &amp;  Brickman,  D.  (2010).  Children's attention  to  sample  composition in learning, teaching, and discovery. Developmental  Science,  13 (3),  421-429.  doi:10.1111/j .1467-7687.2009.00896.x

Roscoe, R. D., &amp; Chi, M. T. H. (2007). Understanding tutor learning: Knowledge-building and knowledge-telling in peer tutors' explanations  and  questions. Review of Educational Research, 77 (4), 534-574. doi:10.3102/0034654307309920

Roscoe, R. D., &amp; Chi, M. T. H. (2008). Tutor learning: The role of explaining  and  responding  to  questions. Instructional  Science, 36 (4), 321-350.

Rottman, B. M., &amp; Keil, F. C. (2012). Causal structure learning over time: Observations and interventions. Cognitive Psychology, 64 , 93-125. doi:10.1016/j.cogpsych.2011.10.003

Schmidhuber, J. (1991). Curious model-building control systems. In Proceedings of IEEE International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (Vol. 2, pp. 1458-1463). Washington, DC: IEEE Press.

Schulz,  L., &amp;  Bonawitz,  E.  (2007).  Serious  fun:  Preschoolers engage in more exploratory play when evidence is confounded. Developmental  Psychology,  43 ,  1045-1050.  doi:10.1037/00121649.43.4.1045

Settles, B. (2009). Active learning literature survey (Computer Sciences Technical Report No. 1648). Madison: University of Wisconsin, Madison.

Seung, H., Opper, M., &amp; Sompolinsky, H. (1992). Query by committee. In Proceedings of ACM Workshop on Computational Learning Theory (pp. 287-294). New York, NY: ACM.

Shafto,  P.,  &amp;  Goodman,  N.  D.  (2008). Teaching  games:  Statistical sampling assumptions for learning in pedagogical situations. In B.  C.  Love,  K.  McRae,  &amp; V.  M.  Sloutsky  (Eds.), Proceedings of the 30th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 1632-1637). Austin, TX: Cognitive Science Society.

Shafto, P., Goodman, N. D., &amp; Frank, M. (in press). Learning from others: The consequences of psychological reasoning for human learning. Perspectives on Psychological Science .

Shepard, R. N. (1987). Toward a universal law of generalization for psychological  science. Science,  237 (4820),  1317.  doi:10.1126/ science.3629243

Shepard, R. N., Hovland, C. I., &amp; Jenkins, H. M. (1961). Learning and memorization of classifications. Psychological Monographs: General and Applied, 75 (13), 1-41. doi:10.1037/h0093825

- Simon, D. A., &amp; Bjork, R. A. (2001). Metacognition in motor learning. Journal  of  Experimental  Psychology:  Learning,  Memory, and Cognition, 27 , 907-912. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.27.4.907

Skov,  R.,  &amp;  Sherman,  S.  (1986).  Information-gathering  processes: Diagnosticity, hypothesis-confirmatory strategies, and perceived hypothesis  confirmation. Journal  of  Experimental  Social  Psychology, 22 (2), 93-121. doi:10.1016/0022-1031(86)90031-4

Sobel, D. M., &amp; Kushnir, T. (2006). The importance of decision making in causal learning from interventions. Memory &amp; Cognition, 34 , 411-419. doi:10.3758/BF03193418

- Son, L. K. (2004). Spacing one's study: Evidence for a metacognitive control strategy. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 30 ,  601-604.  doi:10.1037/0278-739330.3.601
- Son, L. K., &amp; Kornell, N. (2008). Research on the allocation of study time: Key studies from 1890 to the present (and beyond). In J. Dunlosky &amp; R. A. Bjork (Eds.), Handbook of metamemory and memory (pp. 333-351). New York, NY: Taylor &amp; Francis.
- Son, L. K., &amp; Kornell, N. (2009). Simultaneous decisions at study: Time allocation, ordering, and spacing. Metacognition Learning, 4 , 237-248. doi:10.1007/s11409-009-9049-1
- Son, L. K., &amp; Metcalfe, J. (2000). Metacognitive and control strategies in study-time allocation. Journal of Experimental Psychology:  Learning,  Memory,  and  Cognition,  26 ,  204-221.  doi:10 .1037//0278-7393,26.1.204
- Son,  L.  K.,  &amp;  Sethi,  R.  (2010). Adaptive  learning  and  the  allocation  of  time. Adaptive  Behavior,  18 , 132-140.  doi:10.1177/ 1059712309344776
- Steyvers,  M.,  Tenenbaum,  J.  B.,  Wagenmakers,  E.  J.,  &amp;  Blum,  B. (2003).  Inferring  causal  networks  from  observations  and  interventions. Cognitive  Science,  27 ,  453-489.  doi:10.1016/S03640213(03)00010-7

Sutton, R., &amp; Barto, A. (1998). Reinforcement learning: An introduction . Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Tenenbaum,  J.  B.  (1999).  Bayesian  modeling  of  human  concept learning.  In  M.  Kearns,  S.  Solla,  &amp;  D.  Cohn  (Eds.), Advances in  neural  information processing systems (V ol.  11,  pp.  59-65). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Todd, P. M., &amp; Dieckmann, A. (2005). Heuristics for ordering cue search  in  decision  making.  In  L.  K.  Saul, Y .  Weiss,  L.  Bottou (Eds.), Advances in neural information processing systems (Vol. 17, pp. 1393-1400). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Todd,  P.  M.,  Hills,  T.,  &amp;  Robbins,  T.  (Eds.).  (in  press). Cognitive search: Evolution, algorithms, and the brain, vol. 9 (Strüngmann Forum Reports). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Tong, S., &amp; Koller, D. (2001, August). Active learning for structure in Bayesian networks. Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (pp.  863-869).  Palo Alto, CA: AAAI Press.

- Tversky, A.,  &amp;  Edwards, W. (1966). Information versus reward in binary choices. Journal of Experimental Psychology, 71 (5), 680683. doi:10.1037/h0023123

Tweney, R. D., Doherty, M. E., Worner, W. J., Pliske, D. B., Mynatt, C. R., Gross, K. A., &amp; Arkkelin, D. L. (1980). Strategies of rule discovery in an inference task. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 32 , 109-123. doi:10.1080/00335558008248237

- Valiant, L. G. (1984). A theory of the learnable. Communications of the ACM, 27 (11), 1134-1142.

- Voss, J. L., Gonsalves, B. D., Federmeier, K. D., Tranel, D., &amp; Cohen, N.  H.  (2011).  Hippocampal  brain-network  coordination  during volitional exploratory behavior enhances learning. Nature Neuroscience, 14 , 115-120. doi:10.1038/nn.2693
- Vygotsky, L. S. (1987). The collected works of L. S. Vygotsky: Vol. 1. Problems of general psychology including the volume thinking and speech . New York, NY: Plenum Press.
- Wason, P. (1960). On the failure to eliminate hypotheses in a conceptual task. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 12 (3), 129-140. doi:10.1080/17470216008416717
- Wittmann, B. C., Daw, N. D., Seymour, B., &amp; Dolan, R. J. (2008). Striatal activity underlies novelty-based choice in humans. Neuron, 58 , 967-073. doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2008.04.027
- Xu,  F.,  &amp;  Tenenbaum,  J.  B.  (2007).  Sensitivity  to  sampling  in Bayesian word learning. Developmental Science, 10 ,  228-297. doi:10.1111/j.1467-7687.2007.00590.x
- Yu, A. J., &amp; Dayan, P. (2003). Expected and unexpected uncertainty: ACh and NE in the neocortex. In S. Becker, S. Thrun, &amp; K. Obermayer (Eds.), Advances in neural information processing systems ( Vol. 15, pp. 173-180). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.